packages/stack/README.md, before:

# Happy Stacks

Run [**Happy**](https://happy.engineering/) locally and access it remotely and securely (using Tailscale).

## What is Happy?

Happy is an UI/CLI stack (server + web UI + CLI + daemon) who let you monitor and interact with Claude Code, Codex and Gemini sessions from your mobile, from a web UI and/or from a desktop app.

## What is Happy Stacks?

happy-stacks is a guided installer + local orchestration CLI for Happy.

If you only want to **use Happy** and self-host it on your computer, start with the **Self-host** section below.
If you want to **develop Happy** (worktrees, multiple stacks, upstream PR workflows), see the **Development** section further down.

## Self-host Happy (install + run)

### Quickstart

```bash
npx happy-stacks setup --profile=selfhost
```

Follow the guided instructions to install Happy and launch it.

### Daily use

#### Configure provider API keys for the daemon

If you want the daemon to have access to provider API keys (for example OpenAI), you can set them so they are automatically loaded when the daemon starts:

```bash
happys env set OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
```

Then restart so the daemon picks up the new environment:

```bash
happys start --restart
```

### Start Happy

Starts the local server, CLI daemon, and serves the pre-built UI.

```bash
happys start
```

### Authentication

On a **fresh machine**, the daemon needs to authenticate once before it can register a “machine”.

```bash
happys auth login
```

If you want a quick diagnosis:

```bash
happys auth status
```

### Enable Tailscale Serve (recommended for mobile/remote)

```bash
happys tailscale enable
happys tailscale url
```

### Mobile access

Make sure Tailscale is [installed and running](https://tailscale.com/kb/1347/installation) on your 
phone, then either:

- Open the URL from `happys tailscale url` on your phone and “Add to Home Screen”, or
- [Download the Happy mobile app]
([https://happy.engineering/](https://happy.engineering/)) and [configure it to use 
your local server](docs/remote-access.md).

Details (secure context, phone instructions, automation knobs): `[docs/remote-access.md](docs/remote-access.md)`.

## Development (worktrees, stacks, contributor workflows)

If you want to **develop Happy** (worktrees, multiple stacks, upstream PR workflows), you can install Happy Stacks for development with:

### Setup (guided)

```bash
npx happy-stacks setup --profile=dev
```

During setup, you’ll be guided through:

- where to store your **workspace** (the folder that will contain `components/` and `components/.worktrees/`)
- bootstrapping/cloning the component repos
- **recommended**: setting up a dedicated `dev-auth` seed stack (authenticate once, then new stacks can reuse it)
- **recommended**: creating a dedicated dev stack (keep `main` stable)
- optional: installing the iOS dev-client app (for phone testing)

You can also set it non-interactively:

```bash
npx happy-stacks setup --profile=dev --workspace-dir=~/Development/happy
```

### Why this exists

- **Automated setup**: `happys setup` + `happys start` gets the whole stack up and running.
- **No hosted dependency**: run the full stack on your own computer.
- **Lower latency**: localhost/LAN is typically much faster than remote hosted servers.
- **Custom forks**: easily use forks of the Happy UI + CLI (e.g. `leeroybrun/*`) while still contributing upstream to `slopus/*`.
- **Worktrees**: clean upstream PR branches without mixing fork-only patches.
- **Stacks**: run multiple isolated instances in parallel (ports + dirs + component overrides).
- **Remote access**: `happys tailscale ...` helps you get an HTTPS URL for mobile/remote devices.

### How Happy Stacks wires “local” URLs

There are two “URLs” to understand:

- **Internal URL**: used by local processes on this machine (server/daemon/CLI)
  - typically `http://127.0.0.1:<port>`
- **Public URL**: used by other devices (phone/laptop) and embedded links/QR codes
  - recommended: `https://<machine>.<tailnet>.ts.net` via Tailscale Serve

Diagram:

```text
             other device (phone/laptop)
                   |
                   |  HTTPS (secure context)
                   v
        https://<machine>.<tailnet>.ts.net
                   |
                   | (tailscale serve)
                   v
           local machine (this repo)
     +--------------------------------+
     | happy-server-light OR          |
     | happy-server (via UI gateway)  |
     |  - listens on :PORT            |
     |  - serves UI at /              |
     +--------------------------------+
                   ^
                   | internal loopback
                   |
            http://127.0.0.1:<port>
               (daemon / CLI)
```

More details + automation: `[docs/remote-access.md](docs/remote-access.md)`.

### How it’s organized

- **Scripts**: `scripts/*.mjs` (bootstrap/dev/start/build/stacks/worktrees/service/tailscale/mobile)
- **Components**: `components/*` (each is its own Git repo)
- **Worktrees**: `components/.worktrees/<component>/<owner>/<branch...>`
- **CWD-scoped commands**: if you run `happys test/typecheck/lint` from inside a component checkout/worktree and omit components, it runs just that component; `happys build/dev/start` also prefer the checkout you’re currently inside.

Components:

- `happy` (UI)
- `happy-cli` (CLI + daemon)
- `happy-server-light` (light server, can serve built UI)
- `happy-server` (full server)

### Quickstarts (feature-focused)

#### Remote access (Tailscale Serve)

```bash
happys tailscale enable
happys tailscale url
```

Details: `[docs/remote-access.md](docs/remote-access.md)`.

#### Worktrees + forks (clean upstream PRs)

Create a clean upstream PR worktree:

```bash
happys wt new happy pr/my-feature --from=upstream --use
happys wt push happy active --remote=upstream
```

Test an upstream PR locally:

```bash
happys wt pr happy https://github.com/slopus/happy/pull/123 --use
happys wt pr happy 123 --update --stash
```

##### Developer quickstart: create a PR stack (isolated ports/dirs; idempotent updates)

This creates (or reuses) a named stack, checks out PR worktrees for the selected components, optionally seeds auth, and starts the stack.
Re-run with `--reuse` to update the existing worktrees when the PR changes.

```bash
happys stack pr pr123 \
  --happy=https://github.com/slopus/happy/pull/123 \
  --happy-cli=https://github.com/slopus/happy-cli/pull/456 \
  --seed-auth --copy-auth-from=dev-auth --link-auth \
  --dev
```

Optional: enable Expo dev-client for mobile reviewers (reuses the same Expo dev server; no second Metro process):

```bash
happys stack pr pr123 --happy=123 --happy-cli=456 --dev --mobile
```

Optional: run it in a self-contained sandbox folder (delete it to uninstall completely):

```bash
SANDBOX="$(mktemp -d /tmp/happy-stacks-sandbox.XXXXXX)"
happys --sandbox-dir "$SANDBOX" stack pr pr123 --happy=123 --happy-cli=456 --dev
rm -rf "$SANDBOX"
```

Update when the PR changes:

- Re-run with `--reuse` to fast-forward worktrees when possible.
- If the PR was force-pushed, add `--force`.

```bash
happys stack pr pr123 --happy=123 --happy-cli=456 --reuse
happys stack pr pr123 --happy=123 --happy-cli=456 --reuse --force
```

##### Maintainer quickstart: one-shot “install + run PR stack” (idempotent)

This is the maintainer-friendly entrypoint. It is safe to re-run and will keep the PR stack wiring intact.

```bash
npx happy-stacks setup-pr \
  --happy=https://github.com/slopus/happy/pull/123 \
  --happy-cli=https://github.com/slopus/happy-cli/pull/456
```

Optional: enable Expo dev-client for mobile reviewers (works with both default `--dev` and `--start`):

```bash
npx happy-stacks setup-pr --happy=123 --happy-cli=456 --mobile
```

Optional: run it in a self-contained sandbox folder (auto-cleaned):

```bash
npx happy-stacks review-pr --happy=123 --happy-cli=456
```

Short form (PR numbers):

```bash
npx happy-stacks setup-pr --happy=123 --happy-cli=456
```

Override stack name (optional):

```bash
npx happy-stacks setup-pr --name=pr123 --happy=123 --happy-cli=456
```

Update when the PR changes:

- Re-run the same command to fast-forward the PR worktrees.
- If the PR was force-pushed, add `--force`.

```bash
npx happy-stacks setup-pr --happy=123 --happy-cli=456
npx happy-stacks setup-pr --happy=123 --happy-cli=456 --force
```

Details: `[docs/worktrees-and-forks.md](docs/worktrees-and-forks.md)`.

#### Server flavor (server-light vs full server)

- Use `happy-server-light` for a light local stack (no Redis, no Postgres, no Docker), and UI serving via server-light.
- Use `happy-server` when you need a more production-like server (Postgres + Redis + S3-compatible storage) or want to develop server changes for upstream.
  - Happy Stacks can **manage the required infra automatically per stack** (via Docker Compose) and runs a **UI gateway** so you still get a single `https://...ts.net` URL that serves the UI + proxies API/websockets/files.

Switch globally:

```bash
happys srv status
happys srv use --interactive
```

Switch per-stack:

```bash
happys stack srv exp1 -- use --interactive
```

Details: `[docs/server-flavors.md](docs/server-flavors.md)`.

#### Stacks (multiple isolated instances)

```bash
happys stack new exp1 --interactive
happys stack dev exp1
```

Point a stack at a PR worktree:

```bash
happys wt pr happy 123 --use
happys stack wt exp1 -- use happy slopus/pr/123-fix-thing
happys stack dev exp1
```

Details: `[docs/stacks.md](docs/stacks.md)`.

#### Dev stacks: browser origin isolation (IMPORTANT)

Non-main stacks use a stack-specific localhost hostname (no `/etc/hosts` changes required):

- `http://happy-<stack>.localhost:<uiPort>`

This avoids browser auth/session collisions between stacks (separate origin per stack).

#### Menu bar (SwiftBar)

```bash
happys menubar install
happys menubar open
```

Details: `[docs/menubar.md](docs/menubar.md)`.

#### Mobile iOS dev (optional)

```bash
# Install the shared "Happy Stacks Dev" dev-client app on your iPhone:
happys mobile-dev-client --install

# Install an isolated per-stack app (Release config, unique bundle id + scheme):
happys stack mobile:install <stack> --name="Happy (<stack>)"
```

Details: `[docs/mobile-ios.md](docs/mobile-ios.md)`.

#### Reviewing PRs in an isolated sandbox

- **Unique hostname per run (default)**: `happys review-pr` generates a unique stack name by default, which results in a unique `happy-<stack>.localhost` hostname. This prevents browser storage collisions when the sandbox is deleted between runs.
- **Reuse an existing sandbox**: if a previous run preserved a sandbox (e.g. `--keep-sandbox` or a failure in verbose mode), re-running `happys review-pr` offers an interactive choice to reuse it (keeping the same hostname + on-disk auth), or create a fresh sandbox.

#### Tauri desktop app (optional)

```bash
happys build --tauri
```

Details: `[docs/tauri.md](docs/tauri.md)`.

### Commands (high-signal)

- **Setup**:
  - `happys setup` (guided; selfhost or dev)
  - (advanced) `happys init` (plumbing: shims/runtime/pointer env)
  - (advanced) `happys bootstrap --interactive` (component installer wizard)
- **Run**:
  - `happys start` (production-like; serves built UI via server-light)
  - `happys dev` (dev; Expo dev server for UI, optional dev-client via `--mobile`)
- **Server flavor**:
  - `happys srv status`
  - `happys srv use --interactive`
- **Worktrees**:
  - `happys wt use --interactive`
  - `happys wt pr <component> <pr-url|number> --use [--update] [--stash] [--force]`
  - `happys wt sync-all`
  - `happys wt update-all --dry-run` / `happys wt update-all --stash`
- **Stacks**:
  - `happys stack new --interactive`
  - `happys stack dev <name>` / `happys stack start <name>`
  - `happys stack edit <name> --interactive`
  - `happys stack wt <name> -- use --interactive`
  - `happys stack happy <name> -- <happy-cli args...>`
  - `happys stack review <name> [component...] [--reviewers=coderabbit,codex] [--base-ref=<ref>]`
  - `happys stack migrate`
- **Reviews (local diff review)**:
  - `happys review [component...] [--reviewers=coderabbit,codex] [--base-remote=<remote>] [--base-branch=<branch>] [--base-ref=<ref>]`
- **Menu bar (SwiftBar)**:
  - `happys menubar install`

### Docs (deep dives)

- **Remote access (Tailscale + phone)**: `[docs/remote-access.md](docs/remote-access.md)`
- **Server flavors (server-light vs server)**: `[docs/server-flavors.md](docs/server-flavors.md)`
- **Worktrees + forks workflow**: `[docs/worktrees-and-forks.md](docs/worktrees-and-forks.md)`
- **Stacks (multiple instances)**: `[docs/stacks.md](docs/stacks.md)`
- **Paths + env precedence (home/workspace/runtime/stacks)**: `[docs/paths-and-env.md](docs/paths-and-env.md)`
- **Menu bar (SwiftBar)**: `[docs/menubar.md](docs/menubar.md)`
- **Mobile iOS dev**: `[docs/mobile-ios.md](docs/mobile-ios.md)`
- **Tauri desktop app**: `[docs/tauri.md](docs/tauri.md)`

### Configuration

Where config lives by default:

- `~/.happy-stacks/.env`: stable “pointer” file (home/workspace/runtime)
- `~/.happy-stacks/env.local`: optional global overrides
- `~/.happy/stacks/main/env`: main stack config (port, server flavor, component overrides)

Notes:

- Canonical env prefix is `HAPPY_STACKS_*` (legacy `HAPPY_LOCAL_*` still works).
- Canonical stack storage is `~/.happy/stacks` (legacy `~/.happy/local` is still supported).
- To edit per-stack environment variables (including provider keys like `OPENAI_API_KEY`), use:

  ```bash
  happys stack env <stack> set KEY=VALUE
  happys stack env <stack> unset KEY
  happys stack env <stack> get KEY
  happys stack env <stack> list
  ```

- **Repo env templates**:
  - **Use `.env.example` as the canonical template** (copy it to `.env` if you’re running this repo directly).
  - If an LLM tool refuses to read/edit `.env.example` due to safety restrictions, **do not create an `env.example` workaround**—instead, ask the user to apply the change manually.

### Sandbox / test installs (fully isolated)

If you want to test the full setup flow (including PR stacks) without impacting your “real” install, run everything with `--sandbox-dir`.
To fully uninstall the test run, stop the sandbox stacks and delete the sandbox folder.

```bash
SANDBOX="$(mktemp -d /tmp/happy-stacks-sandbox.XXXXXX)"

# Run a PR stack (fully isolated install)
npx happy-stacks --sandbox-dir "$SANDBOX" setup-pr --happy=123 --happy-cli=456

# Tear down + uninstall
npx happy-stacks --sandbox-dir "$SANDBOX" stop --yes --no-service
rm -rf "$SANDBOX"
```

Notes:

- Sandbox mode disables global OS side effects (**PATH edits**, **SwiftBar plugin install**, **LaunchAgents/systemd services**, **Tailscale Serve enable/disable**) by default.
- To explicitly allow those for testing, set `HAPPY_STACKS_SANDBOX_ALLOW_GLOBAL=1` (still recommended to clean up after).

For contributor/LLM workflow expectations: `[AGENTS.md](AGENTS.md)`.

### Developing Happy Stacks itself

```bash
git clone https://github.com/leeroybrun/happy-stacks.git
cd happy-stacks

node ./bin/happys.mjs setup --profile=dev
```

Notes:

- In a cloned repo, `pnpm <script>` still works, but `happys <command>` is the recommended UX (same underlying scripts).
- To make the installed `~/.happy-stacks/bin/happys` shim (LaunchAgents / SwiftBar) run your local checkout without publishing to npm, set:

```bash
echo 'HAPPY_STACKS_CLI_ROOT_DIR=/path/to/your/happy-stacks-checkout' >> ~/.happy-stacks/.env
```

Or (recommended) persist it via init:

```bash
happys init --cli-root-dir=/path/to/your/happy-stacks-checkout
```

Commit message:

feat(stack): rebrand to Happier and drop HAPPY_LOCAL_*
Rename product and fork references from "Happy"/"leeroybrun" to "Happier"/"happier-dev" across docs, scripts and examples; update default fork repo URLs and mobile bundle identifiers. Simplify environment handling by removing legacy HAPPY_LOCAL_* fallbacks and related envs/flags, and change the default runtime/home pointer from ~/.happy-stacks to ~/.happier-stack. Misc: adjust CLI/daemon messaging, SwiftBar metadata, tests and worktree examples to match the new branding and defaults.

Why: apply a rebrand and reduce legacy/env duplication to make configuration and onboarding simpler.

Migration notes:
- Users should update any scripts/CI referencing leeroybrun/* to happier-dev/* and any hardcoded repo URLs.
- Existing installs using ~/.happy-stacks should set HAPPY_STACKS_HOME_DIR or move the pointer file to ~/.happier-stack.
- Remove/replace usages of HAPPY_LOCAL_* env vars with the corresponding HAPPY_STACKS_* names.

BREAKING CHANGE: default home/pointer moved to ~/.happier-stack and legacy HAPPY_LOCAL_* env fallbacks removed; existing setups and automation may need updates.

packages/stack/README.md, after:

# Happier Stacks

Run [**Happier**](https://app.happier.dev) locally and access it remotely and securely (using Tailscale).

## What is Happier?

Happier is an UI/CLI stack (server + web UI + CLI + daemon) who let you monitor and interact with Claude Code, Codex and Gemini sessions from your mobile, from a web UI and/or from a desktop app.

## What is Happier Stacks?

happy-stacks is a guided installer + local orchestration CLI for Happier.

If you only want to **use Happier** and self-host it on your computer, start with the **Self-host** section below.
If you want to **develop Happier** (worktrees, multiple stacks, upstream PR workflows), see the **Development** section further down.

## Self-host Happier (install + run)

### Quickstart

```bash
npx happy-stacks setup --profile=selfhost
```

Follow the guided instructions to install Happier and launch it.

### Daily use

#### Configure provider API keys for the daemon

If you want the daemon to have access to provider API keys (for example OpenAI), you can set them so they are automatically loaded when the daemon starts:

```bash
happys env set OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
```

Then restart so the daemon picks up the new environment:

```bash
happys start --restart
```

### Start Happier

Starts the local server, CLI daemon, and serves the pre-built UI.

```bash
happys start
```

### Authentication

On a **fresh machine**, the daemon needs to authenticate once before it can register a “machine”.

```bash
happys auth login
```

If you want a quick diagnosis:

```bash
happys auth status
```

### Enable Tailscale Serve (recommended for mobile/remote)

```bash
happys tailscale enable
happys tailscale url
```

### Mobile access

Make sure Tailscale is [installed and running](https://tailscale.com/kb/1347/installation) on your 
phone, then either:

- Open the URL from `happys tailscale url` on your phone and “Add to Home Screen”, or
- [Download the Happier mobile app]
([https://app.happier.dev](https://app.happier.dev)) and [configure it to use 
your local server](docs/remote-access.md).

Details (secure context, phone instructions, automation knobs): `[docs/remote-access.md](docs/remote-access.md)`.

## Development (worktrees, stacks, contributor workflows)

If you want to **develop Happier** (worktrees, multiple stacks, upstream PR workflows), you can install Happy Stacks for development with:

### Setup (guided)

```bash
npx happy-stacks setup --profile=dev
```

During setup, you’ll be guided through:

- where to store your **workspace** (the folder that will contain `components/` and `components/.worktrees/`)
- bootstrapping/cloning the component repos
- **recommended**: setting up a dedicated `dev-auth` seed stack (authenticate once, then new stacks can reuse it)
- **recommended**: creating a dedicated dev stack (keep `main` stable)
- optional: installing the iOS dev-client app (for phone testing)

You can also set it non-interactively:

```bash
npx happy-stacks setup --profile=dev --workspace-dir=~/Development/happy
```

### Why this exists

- **Automated setup**: `happys setup` + `happys start` gets the whole stack up and running.
- **No hosted dependency**: run the full stack on your own computer.
- **Lower latency**: localhost/LAN is typically much faster than remote hosted servers.
- **Custom forks**: easily use forks of the Happier UI + CLI (e.g. `happier-dev/*`) while still contributing upstream to `slopus/*`.
- **Worktrees**: clean upstream PR branches without mixing fork-only patches.
- **Stacks**: run multiple isolated instances in parallel (ports + dirs + component overrides).
- **Remote access**: `happys tailscale ...` helps you get an HTTPS URL for mobile/remote devices.

### How Happy Stacks wires “local” URLs

There are two “URLs” to understand:

- **Internal URL**: used by local processes on this machine (server/daemon/CLI)
  - typically `http://127.0.0.1:<port>`
- **Public URL**: used by other devices (phone/laptop) and embedded links/QR codes
  - recommended: `https://<machine>.<tailnet>.ts.net` via Tailscale Serve

Diagram:

```text
             other device (phone/laptop)
                   |
                   |  HTTPS (secure context)
                   v
        https://<machine>.<tailnet>.ts.net
                   |
                   | (tailscale serve)
                   v
           local machine (this repo)
     +--------------------------------+
     | happy-server-light OR          |
     | happy-server (via UI gateway)  |
     |  - listens on :PORT            |
     |  - serves UI at /              |
     +--------------------------------+
                   ^
                   | internal loopback
                   |
            http://127.0.0.1:<port>
               (daemon / CLI)
```

More details + automation: `[docs/remote-access.md](docs/remote-access.md)`.

### How it’s organized

- **Scripts**: `scripts/*.mjs` (bootstrap/dev/start/build/stacks/worktrees/service/tailscale/mobile)
- **Components**: `components/*` (each is its own Git repo)
- **Worktrees**: `components/.worktrees/<component>/<owner>/<branch...>`
- **CWD-scoped commands**: if you run `happys test/typecheck/lint` from inside a component checkout/worktree and omit components, it runs just that component; `happys build/dev/start` also prefer the checkout you’re currently inside.

Components:

- `happy` (UI)
- `happy-cli` (CLI + daemon)
- `happy-server-light` (light server, can serve built UI)
- `happy-server` (full server)

### Quickstarts (feature-focused)

#### Remote access (Tailscale Serve)

```bash
happys tailscale enable
happys tailscale url
```

Details: `[docs/remote-access.md](docs/remote-access.md)`.

#### Worktrees + forks (clean upstream PRs)

Create a clean upstream PR worktree:

```bash
happys wt new happy pr/my-feature --from=upstream --use
happys wt push happy active --remote=upstream
```

Test an upstream PR locally:

```bash
happys wt pr happy https://github.com/slopus/happy/pull/123 --use
happys wt pr happy 123 --update --stash
```

##### Developer quickstart: create a PR stack (isolated ports/dirs; idempotent updates)

This creates (or reuses) a named stack, checks out PR worktrees for the selected components, optionally seeds auth, and starts the stack.
Re-run with `--reuse` to update the existing worktrees when the PR changes.

```bash
happys stack pr pr123 \
  --happy=https://github.com/slopus/happy/pull/123 \
  --happy-cli=https://github.com/slopus/happy-cli/pull/456 \
  --seed-auth --copy-auth-from=dev-auth --link-auth \
  --dev
```

Optional: enable Expo dev-client for mobile reviewers (reuses the same Expo dev server; no second Metro process):

```bash
happys stack pr pr123 --happy=123 --happy-cli=456 --dev --mobile
```

Optional: run it in a self-contained sandbox folder (delete it to uninstall completely):

```bash
SANDBOX="$(mktemp -d /tmp/happy-stacks-sandbox.XXXXXX)"
happys --sandbox-dir "$SANDBOX" stack pr pr123 --happy=123 --happy-cli=456 --dev
rm -rf "$SANDBOX"
```

Update when the PR changes:

- Re-run with `--reuse` to fast-forward worktrees when possible.
- If the PR was force-pushed, add `--force`.

```bash
happys stack pr pr123 --happy=123 --happy-cli=456 --reuse
happys stack pr pr123 --happy=123 --happy-cli=456 --reuse --force
```

##### Maintainer quickstart: one-shot “install + run PR stack” (idempotent)

This is the maintainer-friendly entrypoint. It is safe to re-run and will keep the PR stack wiring intact.

```bash
npx happy-stacks setup-pr \
  --happy=https://github.com/slopus/happy/pull/123 \
  --happy-cli=https://github.com/slopus/happy-cli/pull/456
```

Optional: enable Expo dev-client for mobile reviewers (works with both default `--dev` and `--start`):

```bash
npx happy-stacks setup-pr --happy=123 --happy-cli=456 --mobile
```

Optional: run it in a self-contained sandbox folder (auto-cleaned):

```bash
npx happy-stacks review-pr --happy=123 --happy-cli=456
```

Short form (PR numbers):

```bash
npx happy-stacks setup-pr --happy=123 --happy-cli=456
```

Override stack name (optional):

```bash
npx happy-stacks setup-pr --name=pr123 --happy=123 --happy-cli=456
```

Update when the PR changes:

- Re-run the same command to fast-forward the PR worktrees.
- If the PR was force-pushed, add `--force`.

```bash
npx happy-stacks setup-pr --happy=123 --happy-cli=456
npx happy-stacks setup-pr --happy=123 --happy-cli=456 --force
```

Details: `[docs/worktrees-and-forks.md](docs/worktrees-and-forks.md)`.

#### Server flavor (server-light vs full server)

- Use `happy-server-light` for a light local stack (no Redis, no Postgres, no Docker), and UI serving via server-light.
- Use `happy-server` when you need a more production-like server (Postgres + Redis + S3-compatible storage) or want to develop server changes for upstream.
  - Happy Stacks can **manage the required infra automatically per stack** (via Docker Compose) and runs a **UI gateway** so you still get a single `https://...ts.net` URL that serves the UI + proxies API/websockets/files.

Switch globally:

```bash
happys srv status
happys srv use --interactive
```

Switch per-stack:

```bash
happys stack srv exp1 -- use --interactive
```

Details: `[docs/server-flavors.md](docs/server-flavors.md)`.

#### Stacks (multiple isolated instances)

```bash
happys stack new exp1 --interactive
happys stack dev exp1
```

Point a stack at a PR worktree:

```bash
happys wt pr happy 123 --use
happys stack wt exp1 -- use happy slopus/pr/123-fix-thing
happys stack dev exp1
```

Details: `[docs/stacks.md](docs/stacks.md)`.

#### Dev stacks: browser origin isolation (IMPORTANT)

Non-main stacks use a stack-specific localhost hostname (no `/etc/hosts` changes required):

- `http://happy-<stack>.localhost:<uiPort>`

This avoids browser auth/session collisions between stacks (separate origin per stack).

#### Menu bar (SwiftBar)

```bash
happys menubar install
happys menubar open
```

Details: `[docs/menubar.md](docs/menubar.md)`.

#### Mobile iOS dev (optional)

```bash
# Install the shared "Happy Stacks Dev" dev-client app on your iPhone:
happys mobile-dev-client --install

# Install an isolated per-stack app (Release config, unique bundle id + scheme):
happys stack mobile:install <stack> --name="Happy (<stack>)"
```

Details: `[docs/mobile-ios.md](docs/mobile-ios.md)`.

#### Reviewing PRs in an isolated sandbox

- **Unique hostname per run (default)**: `happys review-pr` generates a unique stack name by default, which results in a unique `happy-<stack>.localhost` hostname. This prevents browser storage collisions when the sandbox is deleted between runs.
- **Reuse an existing sandbox**: if a previous run preserved a sandbox (e.g. `--keep-sandbox` or a failure in verbose mode), re-running `happys review-pr` offers an interactive choice to reuse it (keeping the same hostname + on-disk auth), or create a fresh sandbox.

#### Tauri desktop app (optional)

```bash
happys build --tauri
```

Details: `[docs/tauri.md](docs/tauri.md)`.

### Commands (high-signal)

- **Setup**:
  - `happys setup` (guided; selfhost or dev)
  - (advanced) `happys init` (plumbing: shims/runtime/pointer env)
  - (advanced) `happys bootstrap --interactive` (component installer wizard)
- **Run**:
  - `happys start` (production-like; serves built UI via server-light)
  - `happys dev` (dev; Expo dev server for UI, optional dev-client via `--mobile`)
- **Server flavor**:
  - `happys srv status`
  - `happys srv use --interactive`
- **Worktrees**:
  - `happys wt use --interactive`
  - `happys wt pr <component> <pr-url|number> --use [--update] [--stash] [--force]`
  - `happys wt sync-all`
  - `happys wt update-all --dry-run` / `happys wt update-all --stash`
- **Stacks**:
  - `happys stack new --interactive`
  - `happys stack dev <name>` / `happys stack start <name>`
  - `happys stack edit <name> --interactive`
  - `happys stack wt <name> -- use --interactive`
  - `happys stack happy <name> -- <happy-cli args...>`
  - `happys stack review <name> [component...] [--reviewers=coderabbit,codex] [--base-ref=<ref>]`
  - `happys stack migrate`
- **Reviews (local diff review)**:
  - `happys review [component...] [--reviewers=coderabbit,codex] [--base-remote=<remote>] [--base-branch=<branch>] [--base-ref=<ref>]`
- **Menu bar (SwiftBar)**:
  - `happys menubar install`

### Docs (deep dives)

- **Remote access (Tailscale + phone)**: `[docs/remote-access.md](docs/remote-access.md)`
- **Server flavors (server-light vs server)**: `[docs/server-flavors.md](docs/server-flavors.md)`
- **Worktrees + forks workflow**: `[docs/worktrees-and-forks.md](docs/worktrees-and-forks.md)`
- **Stacks (multiple instances)**: `[docs/stacks.md](docs/stacks.md)`
- **Paths + env precedence (home/workspace/runtime/stacks)**: `[docs/paths-and-env.md](docs/paths-and-env.md)`
- **Menu bar (SwiftBar)**: `[docs/menubar.md](docs/menubar.md)`
- **Mobile iOS dev**: `[docs/mobile-ios.md](docs/mobile-ios.md)`
- **Tauri desktop app**: `[docs/tauri.md](docs/tauri.md)`

### Configuration

Where config lives by default:

- `~/.happy-stacks/.env`: stable “pointer” file (home/workspace/runtime)
- `~/.happy-stacks/env.local`: optional global overrides
- `~/.happy/stacks/main/env`: main stack config (port, server flavor, component overrides)

Notes:

- Canonical env prefix is `HAPPY_STACKS_*` (legacy `HAPPY_LOCAL_*` still works).
- Canonical stack storage is `~/.happy/stacks` (legacy `~/.happy/local` is still supported).
- To edit per-stack environment variables (including provider keys like `OPENAI_API_KEY`), use:

  ```bash
  happys stack env <stack> set KEY=VALUE
  happys stack env <stack> unset KEY
  happys stack env <stack> get KEY
  happys stack env <stack> list
  ```

- **Repo env templates**:
  - **Use `.env.example` as the canonical template** (copy it to `.env` if you’re running this repo directly).
  - If an LLM tool refuses to read/edit `.env.example` due to safety restrictions, **do not create an `env.example` workaround**—instead, ask the user to apply the change manually.

### Sandbox / test installs (fully isolated)

If you want to test the full setup flow (including PR stacks) without impacting your “real” install, run everything with `--sandbox-dir`.
To fully uninstall the test run, stop the sandbox stacks and delete the sandbox folder.

```bash
SANDBOX="$(mktemp -d /tmp/happy-stacks-sandbox.XXXXXX)"

# Run a PR stack (fully isolated install)
npx happy-stacks --sandbox-dir "$SANDBOX" setup-pr --happy=123 --happy-cli=456

# Tear down + uninstall
npx happy-stacks --sandbox-dir "$SANDBOX" stop --yes --no-service
rm -rf "$SANDBOX"
```

Notes:

- Sandbox mode disables global OS side effects (**PATH edits**, **SwiftBar plugin install**, **LaunchAgents/systemd services**, **Tailscale Serve enable/disable**) by default.
- To explicitly allow those for testing, set `HAPPY_STACKS_SANDBOX_ALLOW_GLOBAL=1` (still recommended to clean up after).

For contributor/LLM workflow expectations: `[AGENTS.md](AGENTS.md)`.

### Developing Happy Stacks itself

```bash
git clone https://github.com/happier-dev/happy-stacks.git
cd happy-stacks

node ./bin/happys.mjs setup --profile=dev
```

Notes:

- In a cloned repo, `pnpm <script>` still works, but `happys <command>` is the recommended UX (same underlying scripts).
- To make the installed `~/.happy-stacks/bin/happys` shim (LaunchAgents / SwiftBar) run your local checkout without publishing to npm, set:

```bash
echo 'HAPPY_STACKS_CLI_ROOT_DIR=/path/to/your/happy-stacks-checkout' >> ~/.happy-stacks/.env
```

Or (recommended) persist it via init:

```bash
happys init --cli-root-dir=/path/to/your/happy-stacks-checkout
```
