packages/stack/docs/remote-access.md, before:

# Remote access (Tailscale + phone)

Happy relies on “secure context” browser features (WebCrypto). Browsers treat `http://localhost` as a secure context, but **not** `http://<lan-ip>:<port>` or `http://<tailscale-ip>:<port>`.

For remote access (phone, another laptop, etc) you should use **HTTPS**.

The recommended approach is **Tailscale Serve**, which gives you an `https://*.ts.net` URL for your machine that is only accessible inside your tailnet.

## Quickstart

1) Install Tailscale and sign in on your computer.

2) Enable Serve:

```bash
happys tailscale enable
happys tailscale url
```

3) Open the URL from `happys tailscale url` on another device (also signed into Tailscale).

Tip: on iOS, you can “Add to Home Screen” from Safari to use it like an app.

## Automation

If Serve is already configured, `happys start` will automatically prefer the `https://*.ts.net` URL for “public” links unless you explicitly set `HAPPY_STACKS_SERVER_URL` (legacy: `HAPPY_LOCAL_SERVER_URL`).

You can also ask happy-stacks to enable Serve automatically at boot:

```bash
HAPPY_STACKS_TAILSCALE_SERVE=1 happys start
```

Useful knobs:
- `HAPPY_STACKS_TAILSCALE_WAIT_MS` (legacy: `HAPPY_LOCAL_TAILSCALE_WAIT_MS`)
- `HAPPY_STACKS_TAILSCALE_BIN` (legacy: `HAPPY_LOCAL_TAILSCALE_BIN`)

## Using the native Happy mobile app (optional)

The upstream Happy mobile app has an “API Endpoint” setting (developer mode).
Point it at the same HTTPS `*.ts.net` URL to use your local server.

However, the simplest option is usually the **served web UI** (no app updates needed).

Commit message:

refactor(stack)!: rename happys to hapsta
Rename product/CLI branding and environment variables from happys/HAPPY_STACKS to hapsta/HAPPIER_STACK across docs, scripts, tests and code. Tool-tracing env handling was simplified to use HAPPIER_STACK_TOOL_TRACE (and HAPPIER_STACK_TOOL_TRACE_DIR / _FILE) and legacy aliases (HAPPY_LOCAL_*, HAPPY_*) were removed. Tests, API/session tooling, ACP debug flag, swiftbar extras, and .env.example were updated accordingly.

BREAKING CHANGE: Users must update CI/scripts and environment variables to the new names (replace happys -> hapsta and HAPPY_STACKS_* -> HAPPIER_STACK_*). Tool-trace no longer recognizes legacy env aliases; set HAPPIER_STACK_TOOL_TRACE and related vars if you rely on tracing.

packages/stack/docs/remote-access.md, after:

# Remote access (Tailscale + phone)

Happy relies on “secure context” browser features (WebCrypto). Browsers treat `http://localhost` as a secure context, but **not** `http://<lan-ip>:<port>` or `http://<tailscale-ip>:<port>`.

For remote access (phone, another laptop, etc) you should use **HTTPS**.

The recommended approach is **Tailscale Serve**, which gives you an `https://*.ts.net` URL for your machine that is only accessible inside your tailnet.

## Quickstart

1) Install Tailscale and sign in on your computer.

2) Enable Serve:

```bash
hapsta tailscale enable
hapsta tailscale url
```

3) Open the URL from `hapsta tailscale url` on another device (also signed into Tailscale).

Tip: on iOS, you can “Add to Home Screen” from Safari to use it like an app.

## Automation

If Serve is already configured, `hapsta start` will automatically prefer the `https://*.ts.net` URL for “public” links unless you explicitly set `HAPPIER_STACK_SERVER_URL`.

You can also ask hapsta to enable Serve automatically at boot:

```bash
HAPPIER_STACK_TAILSCALE_SERVE=1 hapsta start
```

Useful knobs:
- `HAPPIER_STACK_TAILSCALE_WAIT_MS`
- `HAPPIER_STACK_TAILSCALE_BIN`

## Using the native Happy mobile app (optional)

The upstream Happy mobile app has an “API Endpoint” setting (developer mode).
Point it at the same HTTPS `*.ts.net` URL to use your local server.

However, the simplest option is usually the **served web UI** (no app updates needed).
