apps/docs/content/docs/hstack/server-flavors.mdx, before:

---
title: Server flavors
description: Choose between happier-server-light (SQLite) and happier-server (Docker-managed infra).
---

# Server flavors: `happier-server-light` vs `happier-server`

hstack supports two server “flavors”. You can switch between them globally (main stack) or per stack.

## What’s the difference?

Historically, both flavors lived in the same upstream server repo, but optimized for different use cases.

With the Happier monorepo, the server code comes from the monorepo server package (typically `apps/server`). In branches where
the server includes the SQLite schema (`apps/server/prisma/sqlite/schema.prisma`, legacy paths may differ),
hstack treats `happier-server-light` and `happier-server` as **two flavors of the same checkout** (different backends, same repo).

Long-term, the intent is one server package with multiple backends (“flavors”), not separate repos.

### Unified codebase (recommended)

When your `happier-server` checkout includes the light flavor artifacts (notably `prisma/sqlite/schema.prisma` — legacy: `prisma/schema.sqlite.prisma`), hstack treats it as a **single unified server codebase** that supports both:

- `happier-server` (full / Postgres+Redis+S3)
- `happier-server-light` (light / SQLite+local files, can serve UI)

In that setup:

- there is **no server code duplication**
- `happier-server-light` can point at the **same checkout/worktree** as `happier-server`
- `hstack stack new` will default to pinning **both** server component dirs to the same path
- `hstack start/dev --server=happier-server-light` will run `start:light` / `dev:light` when available

- **`happier-server-light`** (recommended default)
  - optimized for local usage
  - can **serve the built web UI** (so `hstack start` works end-to-end without a separate web server)
  - usually the best choice when you just want a stable “main” stack on your machine

- **`happier-server`** (full server)
  - closer to upstream “full” behavior (useful when developing server changes meant to go upstream)
  - the upstream server typically does **not** serve the built UI itself, but hstack provides a **UI gateway** so you still get a single URL that serves the UI and proxies API/websockets/files
  - useful when you need to test upstream/server-only behavior or reproduce upstream issues, with per-stack infra isolation

## Full server infra (no AWS required)

`happier-server` requires:

- Postgres (`DATABASE_URL`)
- Redis (`REDIS_URL`)
- S3-compatible object storage (`S3_*`)

hstack can **manage this for you automatically per stack** using Docker Compose (Postgres + Redis + Minio),
so you **do not need AWS S3**.

This happens automatically when you run `hstack start/dev --server=happier-server` (or when a stack uses `happier-server`),
unless you disable it with:

```bash
export HAPPIER_STACK_MANAGED_INFRA=0
```

If disabled, you must provide `DATABASE_URL`, `REDIS_URL`, and `S3_*` yourself.

## UI serving with `happier-server`

The upstream `happier-server` does not serve the built UI itself.

For a “one URL” UX (especially with Tailscale), hstack starts a lightweight **UI gateway** that:

- serves the built UI at `/` (if a build exists)
- reverse-proxies API calls to the backend server
- reverse-proxies realtime websocket upgrades (`/v1/updates`)
- reverse-proxies public files (to local Minio)

This means `hstack start --server=happier-server` can still work end-to-end without requiring AWS S3 or a separate nginx setup.

## Migrating between flavors (SQLite ⇢ Postgres)

hstack includes an **experimental** migration helper that can copy core chat data from a
`happier-server-light` stack (SQLite) into a `happier-server` stack (Postgres):

```bash
hstack migrate light-to-server --from-stack=main --to-stack=full1
```

Optional: include local public files (server-light `files/`) by mirroring them into Minio:

```bash
hstack migrate light-to-server --from-stack=main --to-stack=full1 --include-files
```

Notes:
- This preserves IDs (session URLs remain valid on the target server).
- It also copies the `HANDY_MASTER_SECRET` from the source stack into the target stack’s secret file so auth tokens remain valid.

## Prisma behavior (why start is safer under LaunchAgents)

- **`hstack start`** is “production-like”. It avoids running heavyweight schema sync loops under launchd KeepAlive.
- **`hstack dev`** is for rapid iteration:
  - for `happier-server`: hstack runs `prisma migrate deploy` by default (configurable via `HAPPIER_STACK_PRISMA_MIGRATE`).
  - for `happier-server-light`:
    - **unified** server-light (recommended): hstack runs `prisma migrate deploy` (SQLite migrations) using the unified schema under `prisma/sqlite/schema.prisma` (legacy: `prisma/schema.sqlite.prisma`).
    - **legacy** server-light: hstack does **not** run `prisma migrate deploy` (it commonly fails with `P3005` when the DB was created via `prisma db push` and no migrations exist). The legacy server-light dev/start scripts handle schema via `prisma db push`.

Important: for a given run (`hstack start` / `hstack dev`) you choose **one** flavor.

## How to switch (main stack)

Use the `srv` helper (persisted in `~/.happier/stacks/main/env` by default, or in your stack env file when using `hstack stack ...`):

```bash
hstack srv status
hstack srv use happier-server-light
hstack srv use happier-server
hstack srv use --interactive
```

This persists `HAPPIER_STACK_SERVER_COMPONENT`.

## How to switch for a specific stack

Use the stack wrapper:

```bash
hstack stack srv exp1 -- status
hstack stack srv exp1 -- use happier-server-light
hstack stack srv exp1 -- use happier-server
hstack stack srv exp1 -- use --interactive
```

This updates the stack env file (typically `~/.happier/stacks/<name>/env`).

## One-off overrides (do not persist)

You can override the server flavor for a single run:

```bash
hstack start --server=happier-server-light
hstack start --server=happier-server

hstack dev --server=happier-server-light
hstack dev --server=happier-server
```

## Flavor vs repo selection

There are two separate concepts:

- **Flavor selection**: which server flavor hstack runs
  - controlled by `HAPPIER_STACK_SERVER_COMPONENT` (via `hstack srv use ...`)
- **Repo selection**: which monorepo checkout/worktree the stack runs from
  - controlled by `HAPPIER_STACK_REPO_DIR` (via `hstack wt use ...` / `hstack stack wt <stack> -- use ...`)

Commit message:

fix(stack): PG_Light server-light + auth seeding [GREEN]
- Treat happier-server-light as embedded Postgres (PGlite) everywhere\n- Fix stack env/audit migration and auth DB seeding\n- Add contrib dev checkout tracking + docs updates\n\nTests: node --test (targeted stack suite)

apps/docs/content/docs/hstack/server-flavors.mdx, after:

---
title: Server flavors
description: Choose between happier-server-light (PG_Light via embedded PGlite) and happier-server (Docker-managed infra).
---

# Server flavors: `happier-server-light` vs `happier-server`

hstack supports two server “flavors”. You can switch between them globally (main stack) or per stack.

## What’s the difference?

Both flavors use the **same server codebase** (the monorepo server package, typically `apps/server`), but run with different backends and storage assumptions.

### `happier-server-light` (recommended default)

- **No Docker required**
- Uses **embedded Postgres via PGlite** (“PG_Light”) stored under the stack directory (per-stack isolation)
- Stores local public files under the stack directory
- Best choice for a stable “main” stack and quick local installs

Light stacks are isolated by default:

```
~/.happier/stacks/<stack>/server-light/files
~/.happier/stacks/<stack>/server-light/pglite
```

Key env vars (stored in the stack env file):

- `HAPPIER_SERVER_LIGHT_DATA_DIR`
- `HAPPIER_SERVER_LIGHT_FILES_DIR`
- `HAPPIER_SERVER_LIGHT_DB_DIR`

### `happier-server` (full server)

- Docker-managed infra per stack (Postgres + Redis + Minio/S3)
- Closer to “production-like” behavior
- Useful when you need Redis/S3 semantics or want to reproduce full-server-only issues

## Full server infra (no AWS required)

`happier-server` requires:

- Postgres (`DATABASE_URL`)
- Redis (`REDIS_URL`)
- S3-compatible object storage (`S3_*`)

hstack can **manage this for you automatically per stack** using Docker Compose (Postgres + Redis + Minio),
so you **do not need AWS S3**.

This happens automatically when you run `hstack start/dev --server=happier-server` (or when a stack uses `happier-server`),
unless you disable it with:

```bash
export HAPPIER_STACK_MANAGED_INFRA=0
```

If disabled, you must provide `DATABASE_URL`, `REDIS_URL`, and `S3_*` yourself.

## UI serving with `happier-server`

The upstream `happier-server` does not serve the built UI itself.

For a “one URL” UX (especially with Tailscale), hstack starts a lightweight **UI gateway** that:

- serves the built UI at `/` (if a build exists)
- reverse-proxies API calls to the backend server
- reverse-proxies realtime websocket upgrades (`/v1/updates`)
- reverse-proxies public files (to local Minio)

This means `hstack start --server=happier-server` can still work end-to-end without requiring AWS S3 or a separate nginx setup.

## Migrating between flavors (PG_Light ⇢ Postgres)

hstack includes an **experimental** migration helper that can copy core chat data from a
`happier-server-light` stack (embedded PGlite) into a `happier-server` stack (Docker Postgres):

```bash
hstack migrate light-to-server --from-stack=main --to-stack=full1
```

Optional: include local public files (server-light `files/`) by mirroring them into Minio:

```bash
hstack migrate light-to-server --from-stack=main --to-stack=full1 --include-files
```

Notes:
- This preserves IDs (session URLs remain valid on the target server).
- It also copies the `HANDY_MASTER_SECRET` from the source stack into the target stack’s secret file so auth tokens remain valid.

## Prisma behavior (why start is safer under LaunchAgents)

- **`hstack start`** is “production-like”. It avoids running heavyweight schema sync loops under launchd KeepAlive.
- **`hstack dev`** is for rapid iteration:
  - for `happier-server`: hstack runs `prisma migrate deploy` by default (configurable via `HAPPIER_STACK_PRISMA_MIGRATE`).
  - for `happier-server-light`:
    - hstack runs the server package’s `migrate:light:deploy` script, which applies `prisma migrate deploy` against the **embedded PGlite DB** using the standard Postgres schema (`prisma/schema.prisma`).

Important: for a given run (`hstack start` / `hstack dev`) you choose **one** flavor.

## How to switch (main stack)

Use the `srv` helper (persisted in `~/.happier/stacks/main/env` by default, or in your stack env file when using `hstack stack ...`):

```bash
hstack srv status
hstack srv use happier-server-light
hstack srv use happier-server
hstack srv use --interactive
```

This persists `HAPPIER_STACK_SERVER_COMPONENT`.

## How to switch for a specific stack

Use the stack wrapper:

```bash
hstack stack srv exp1 -- status
hstack stack srv exp1 -- use happier-server-light
hstack stack srv exp1 -- use happier-server
hstack stack srv exp1 -- use --interactive
```

This updates the stack env file (typically `~/.happier/stacks/<name>/env`).

## One-off overrides (do not persist)

You can override the server flavor for a single run:

```bash
hstack start --server=happier-server-light
hstack start --server=happier-server

hstack dev --server=happier-server-light
hstack dev --server=happier-server
```

## Flavor vs repo selection

There are two separate concepts:

- **Flavor selection**: which server flavor hstack runs
  - controlled by `HAPPIER_STACK_SERVER_COMPONENT` (via `hstack srv use ...`)
- **Repo selection**: which monorepo checkout/worktree the stack runs from
  - controlled by `HAPPIER_STACK_REPO_DIR` (via `hstack wt use ...` / `hstack stack wt <stack> -- use ...`)

## SQLite note

SQLite is **not** used by `happier-server-light` today (it is PG_Light via embedded PGlite). SQLite may be reintroduced later as an additional light flavor, but it is not part of the current default stack.
