apps/docs/content/docs/hstack/worktrees-and-forks.mdx, before:

---
title: Worktrees and forks
description: Create clean upstream PR worktrees while keeping fork-only patches isolated.
---

# Worktrees + forks (hstack)

This repo is designed to run the **Happier** stack locally, while still making it easy to:

- keep using **your fork** day-to-day
- create **clean upstream PR branches** quickly (without carrying fork-only patches)

hstack is monorepo-first: UI/CLI/server all live in the same Happier git repo.

---

## Key idea: keep stable checkouts stable

- Keep a stable checkout at `<workspace>/main` (treat as read-only).
- Do all development work in `<workspace>/dev` or worktrees under `<workspace>/{pr,local,tmp}/...`.
- Point stacks at a repo checkout via **`HAPPIER_STACK_REPO_DIR`**.
  - Managed by `hstack wt use ...` and `hstack stack wt ...`.

---

## Workspace layout

Default paths (see `hstack where` for your actual values):

- Stable checkout: `<workspace>/main`
- Dev checkout: `<workspace>/dev` (created by `hstack setup --profile=dev`)
- Worktrees:
  - PRs: `<workspace>/pr/...`
  - locals: `<workspace>/local/<owner>/...`
  - tmp: `<workspace>/tmp/<owner>/...`

Inside the monorepo:

- `apps/ui` (UI)
- `apps/cli` (CLI + daemon)
- `apps/server` (server; light/full flavors)

---

## Spec grammar (what you can pass to `--repo` / `wt use`)

These tokens/specs are accepted anywhere a “repo/worktree” is expected:

- `main` / `default` → `<workspace>/main`
- `dev` → `<workspace>/dev`
- `active` → current active repo (your shell env / env.local)
- `pr/<...>` → `<workspace>/pr/<...>`
- `local/<...>` → `<workspace>/local/<owner>/<...>` (owner is your local username)
- `tmp/<...>` → `<workspace>/tmp/<owner>/<...>`
- absolute path to a Happier monorepo checkout/worktree

Examples:

```bash
hstack wt use dev
hstack wt use pr/123-fix-thing
hstack stack wt exp1 -- use local/my-feature
hstack stack typecheck exp1 --repo=/abs/path/to/checkout
```

---

## Fork workflow (upstream vs origin)

Conventions:

- `upstream`: the canonical Happier repo (`happier-dev/happier`)
- `origin`: your fork (where you push branches)

The “upstream-first” flow is:

1. Create a worktree based on upstream (clean history)
2. Push your feature branch to origin
3. Open a PR into upstream/dev

---

## Choosing which checkout hstack runs

hstack selects the active repo checkout using:

- `HAPPIER_STACK_REPO_DIR` (absolute path to the monorepo root)

Recommended ways to set it:

```bash
# Switch the active checkout for non-stack commands:
hstack wt use dev

# Switch the repo for a specific stack env:
hstack stack wt exp1 -- use dev
```

One-shot overrides (does not edit any env files):

```bash
hstack stack typecheck exp1 --repo=pr/123-fix-thing
hstack stack build exp1 --repo=/absolute/path/to/checkout
```

---

## Creating worktrees (`wt new`)

Create a new worktree (defaults to local category, based on upstream):

```bash
hstack wt new my-feature --use
```

Throwaway worktree:

```bash
hstack wt new tmp/scratch --use
```

Push the active worktree branch to your fork:

```bash
hstack wt push active --remote=origin
```

Notes:

- `--from=upstream|origin` controls which remote is used as the base.
- The default base branch is `dev` (configurable via `HAPPIER_STACK_DEV_BRANCH`).

---

## Testing a GitHub PR locally (`wt pr`)

Create a worktree at the PR head ref:

```bash
hstack wt pr https://github.com/happier-dev/happier/pull/123 --use

# or just the PR number (remote defaults to upstream)
hstack wt pr 123 --use
```

Update when the PR changes:

```bash
hstack wt pr 123 --update --stash
```

Notes:

- `--update` fails closed if the PR was force-pushed and the update is not a fast-forward; re-run with `--force`.
- `--stash` keeps your uncommitted changes safe during updates.

### Testing a PR inside a stack (recommended)

Prefer `hstack stack pr` for maintainable PR stacks:

```bash
hstack stack pr pr123 --repo=123 --dev --reuse
```

---

## Workflow helpers

### `wt status`

```bash
hstack wt status active
hstack wt status dev
```

### `wt list`

```bash
hstack wt list
```

This includes `main/`, `dev/`, and any categorized worktrees under `pr/`, `local/`, `tmp/`.

### `wt sync` / `wt sync-all`

Sync remote refs into local mirror branches (useful before creating new worktrees):

```bash
hstack wt sync --remote=upstream
hstack wt sync-all --remote=upstream
```

### `wt update`

Update a worktree from its base (fails closed on conflicts unless you opt into `--force`):

```bash
hstack wt update pr/123-fix-thing
hstack wt update pr/123-fix-thing --stash
hstack wt update pr/123-fix-thing --force
```

Stash behavior:

- `--stash`: auto-stash then pop back if the update was clean
- `--stash-keep`: auto-stash but keep it (you apply it manually later)

### `wt update-all`

```bash
hstack wt update-all
```

Dry-run:

```bash
hstack wt update-all --dry-run
```

### `wt git`

Run git in a resolved worktree:

```bash
hstack wt git pr/123-fix-thing -- status
hstack wt git dev -- checkout -b feature/foo
```

### `wt shell`

Open a “real” interactive shell in a worktree:

```bash
hstack wt shell dev
```

### Editors (`wt code` / `wt cursor`)

```bash
hstack wt cursor dev
hstack wt code pr/123-fix-thing
```

### `wt duplicate`

Duplicate a worktree (useful for “same base, different experiment”):

```bash
hstack wt duplicate active tmp/try-alt --use
```

### `wt archive`

Archive and remove a worktree directory (and optionally delete the branch):

```bash
hstack wt archive pr/123-fix-thing --dry-run
hstack wt archive pr/123-fix-thing
```

Use `--detach-stacks` to unpin stacks that were pointing at that worktree.

---

## Interactive and JSON modes

Most commands support:

- `--interactive` / `-i` (TTY-only wizards where supported)
- `--json` (machine-readable output)

Examples:

```bash
hstack wt use --interactive
hstack wt pr 123 --json
hstack wt list --json
```

---

## Switching server flavor (light vs full)

Choose which backend flavor a stack runs with:

```bash
hstack srv status
hstack srv use happier-server-light
hstack srv use happier-server
hstack srv use --interactive
```

Notes:

- This selects a runtime flavor (light/full). It does **not** select a different git repo.
- Both flavors come from the same monorepo server code (`apps/server`).

Commit message:

fix(stack): PG_Light server-light + auth seeding [GREEN]
- Treat happier-server-light as embedded Postgres (PGlite) everywhere\n- Fix stack env/audit migration and auth DB seeding\n- Add contrib dev checkout tracking + docs updates\n\nTests: node --test (targeted stack suite)

apps/docs/content/docs/hstack/worktrees-and-forks.mdx, after:

---
title: Worktrees and forks
description: Create clean upstream PR worktrees while keeping fork-only patches isolated.
---

# Worktrees + forks (hstack)

This repo is designed to run the **Happier** stack locally, while still making it easy to:

- keep using **your fork** day-to-day
- create **clean upstream PR branches** quickly (without carrying fork-only patches)

hstack is monorepo-first: UI/CLI/server all live in the same Happier git repo.

---

## Key idea: keep stable checkouts stable

- Keep a stable checkout at `<workspace>/main` (treat as read-only).
- Do all development work in `<workspace>/dev` or worktrees under `<workspace>/{pr,local,tmp}/...`.
- Point stacks at a repo checkout via **`HAPPIER_STACK_REPO_DIR`**.
  - Managed by `hstack wt use ...` and `hstack stack wt ...`.

---

## Workspace layout

Default paths (see `hstack where` for your actual values):

- Stable checkout: `<workspace>/main`
- Dev checkout: `<workspace>/dev` (created by `hstack setup --profile=dev`)
- Worktrees:
  - PRs: `<workspace>/pr/...`
  - locals: `<workspace>/local/<owner>/...`
  - tmp: `<workspace>/tmp/<owner>/...`

Inside the monorepo:

- `apps/ui` (UI)
- `apps/cli` (CLI + daemon)
- `apps/server` (server; light/full flavors)

---

## Spec grammar (what you can pass to `--repo` / `wt use`)

These tokens/specs are accepted anywhere a “repo/worktree” is expected:

- `main` / `default` → `<workspace>/main`
- `dev` → `<workspace>/dev`
- `active` → current active repo (your shell env / env.local)
- `pr/<...>` → `<workspace>/pr/<...>`
- `local/<...>` → `<workspace>/local/<owner>/<...>` (owner is your local username)
- `tmp/<...>` → `<workspace>/tmp/<owner>/<...>`
- absolute path to a Happier monorepo checkout/worktree

Examples:

```bash
hstack wt use dev
hstack wt use pr/123-fix-thing
hstack stack wt exp1 -- use local/my-feature
hstack stack typecheck exp1 --repo=/abs/path/to/checkout
```

---

## Fork workflow (upstream vs origin)

Conventions:

- `upstream`: the canonical Happier repo (`happier-dev/happier`)
- `origin`: your fork (where you push branches)

The “upstream-first” flow is:

1. Create a worktree based on upstream (clean history)
2. Push your feature branch to origin
3. Open a PR into upstream/dev

---

## Choosing which checkout hstack runs

hstack selects the active repo checkout using:

- `HAPPIER_STACK_REPO_DIR` (absolute path to the monorepo root)

Recommended ways to set it:

```bash
# Switch the active checkout for non-stack commands:
hstack wt use dev

# Switch the repo for a specific stack env:
hstack stack wt exp1 -- use dev
```

One-shot overrides (does not edit any env files):

```bash
hstack stack typecheck exp1 --repo=pr/123-fix-thing
hstack stack build exp1 --repo=/absolute/path/to/checkout
```

---

## Creating worktrees (`wt new`)

Create a new worktree (defaults to local category, based on upstream):

```bash
hstack wt new local/my-feature --use
```

Throwaway worktree:

```bash
hstack wt new tmp/scratch --use
```

Push the active worktree branch to your fork:

```bash
hstack wt push active --remote=origin
```

Notes:

- `--from=upstream|origin` controls which remote is used as the base.
- The default base branch is `dev` (configurable via `HAPPIER_STACK_DEV_BRANCH`).

---

## Testing a GitHub PR locally (`wt pr`)

Create a worktree at the PR head ref:

```bash
hstack wt pr https://github.com/happier-dev/happier/pull/123 --use

# or just the PR number (remote defaults to upstream)
hstack wt pr 123 --use
```

Update when the PR changes:

```bash
hstack wt pr 123 --update --stash
```

Notes:

- `--update` fails closed if the PR was force-pushed and the update is not a fast-forward; re-run with `--force`.
- `--stash` keeps your uncommitted changes safe during updates.

### Testing a PR inside a stack (recommended)

Prefer `hstack stack pr` for maintainable PR stacks:

```bash
hstack stack pr pr123 --repo=123 --dev --reuse
```

---

## Workflow helpers

### `wt status`

```bash
hstack wt status active
hstack wt status dev
```

### `wt list`

```bash
hstack wt list
```

This includes `main/`, `dev/`, and any categorized worktrees under `pr/`, `local/`, `tmp/`.

### `wt sync` / `wt sync-all`

Sync remote refs into local mirror branches (useful before creating new worktrees):

```bash
hstack wt sync --remote=upstream
hstack wt sync-all --remote=upstream
```

### `wt update`

Update a worktree from its base (fails closed on conflicts unless you opt into `--force`):

```bash
hstack wt update pr/123-fix-thing
hstack wt update pr/123-fix-thing --stash
hstack wt update pr/123-fix-thing --force
```

Stash behavior:

- `--stash`: auto-stash then pop back if the update was clean
- `--stash-keep`: auto-stash but keep it (you apply it manually later)

### `wt update-all`

```bash
hstack wt update-all
```

Dry-run:

```bash
hstack wt update-all --dry-run
```

### `wt git`

Run git in a resolved worktree:

```bash
hstack wt git pr/123-fix-thing -- status
hstack wt git dev -- checkout -b feature/foo
```

### `wt shell`

Open a “real” interactive shell in a worktree:

```bash
hstack wt shell dev
```

### Editors (`wt code` / `wt cursor`)

```bash
hstack wt cursor dev
hstack wt code pr/123-fix-thing
```

### `wt duplicate`

Duplicate a worktree (useful for “same base, different experiment”):

```bash
hstack wt duplicate active tmp/try-alt --use
```

### `wt archive`

Archive and remove a worktree directory (and optionally delete the branch):

```bash
hstack wt archive pr/123-fix-thing --dry-run
hstack wt archive pr/123-fix-thing
```

Use `--detach-stacks` to unpin stacks that were pointing at that worktree.

---

## Interactive and JSON modes

Most commands support:

- `--interactive` / `-i` (TTY-only wizards where supported)
- `--json` (machine-readable output)

Examples:

```bash
hstack wt use --interactive
hstack wt pr 123 --json
hstack wt list --json
```

---

## Switching server flavor (light vs full)

Choose which backend flavor a stack runs with:

```bash
hstack srv status
hstack srv use happier-server-light
hstack srv use happier-server
hstack srv use --interactive
```

Notes:

- This selects a runtime flavor (light/full). It does **not** select a different git repo.
- Both flavors come from the same monorepo server code (`apps/server`).

---

## Fork setup (contributors)

For contributor workflows, hstack expects:

- `upstream` → the canonical repo you PR into
- `origin` → your fork (where you push branches)

If you run `hstack setup --profile=dev` and `origin` still points to `upstream` (and you can’t push there), setup will guide you to configure a fork URL for `origin`.

Non-interactive option:

```bash
export HAPPIER_STACK_FORK_URL="https://github.com/<you>/happier.git"
hstack setup --profile=dev
```

Once configured, a common PR flow is:

```bash
hstack wt new local/my-feature --from=upstream --use
hstack wt push active --remote=origin
```

If you prefer working in the long-lived `dev/` checkout, use `hstack contrib extract` to create feature branches cleanly. See `/docs/hstack/development`.
