apps/stack/docs/paths-and-env.md, before:

# Paths, folders, and env precedence

This doc explains the **directories** that Hapsta uses (home/workspace/runtime/stacks), and the **environment file precedence** used by `hapsta`.

If you’re ever unsure what your machine is actually using, run:

```bash
hapsta where
```

---

## Quick glossary

- **CLI root dir**
  - The directory containing the `@happier-dev/stack` scripts (`scripts/*.mjs`) that your `hapsta` command is currently executing.
  - This is *not* necessarily your current shell `cwd`.
  - It can be:
    - a cloned repo checkout (e.g. `/Users/<you>/.../happier-dev`), or
    - the installed runtime package under `~/.happier-stack/runtime/node_modules/@happier-dev/stack` (see “Runtime dir”).

- **Home dir** (`HAPPIER_STACK_HOME_DIR`)
  - Default: `~/.happier-stack`
  - Stores **global user config** + caches, and may include a runtime install.

- **Runtime dir** (`HAPPIER_STACK_RUNTIME_DIR`)
  - Default: `~/.happier-stack/runtime`
  - Used by `hapsta self update` to install/upgrade a pinned `@happier-dev/stack` runtime package.

- **Workspace dir** (`HAPPIER_STACK_WORKSPACE_DIR`)
  - Default: `~/.happier-stack/workspace` (when it exists).
  - This is the **storage workspace for the Happier monorepo checkout + worktrees** used by Hapsta.
  - It typically contains:
    - `<workspace>/happier` (the default monorepo checkout)
    - `<workspace>/.worktrees/<owner>/<branch...>` (repo worktrees)

- **Repo dir** (`HAPPIER_STACK_REPO_DIR`)
  - Default: `<workspace>/happier`
  - This is the active Happier monorepo checkout (either the default checkout, or a worktree).
  - `hapsta wt use ...` and `hapsta stack wt <stack> -- use ...` update this value.

- **Worktrees root**
  - Default: `<workspace>/.worktrees`
  - Stores monorepo worktrees under: `<workspace>/.worktrees/<owner>/<branch...>`

- **Stacks storage dir**
  - Default: `~/.happier/stacks`
  - Each stack lives under `~/.happier/stacks/<name>/...` and has its own env file:
    - `~/.happier/stacks/<name>/env`

---

## “Where am I actually running from?”

`hapsta` may **re-exec** to a different CLI root dir (for example, when you use an installed shim but want it to run a local checkout).

- Run `hapsta where` to see:
  - **rootDir** (CLI root dir)
  - **homeDir** (stacks home dir)
  - **runtimeDir**
  - **workspaceDir**
  - resolved env file paths

Tip: `hapsta where --json` is easier to parse.

---

## Env files + precedence (lowest → highest)

Hapsta loads env in `scripts/utils/env.mjs`.

### 0) “Canonical pointer” env (discovery)

If `HAPPIER_STACK_HOME_DIR` is *not* set, we first try to read the **canonical pointer** env file to discover the intended home dir (useful for LaunchAgents / SwiftBar / minimal shells).

- Default canonical pointer path: `~/.happier-stack/.env`
- Override canonical pointer location:
  - `HAPPIER_STACK_CANONICAL_HOME_DIR=/some/dir` (pointer becomes `<dir>/.env`)

### 1) Global defaults (home config) OR cloned-repo defaults

If home config exists, we load:

- `~/.happier-stack/.env` (**defaults**)
- `~/.happier-stack/env.local` (**overrides**, prefix-aware for `HAPPIER_STACK_*`)

If home config does *not* exist (cloned repo usage before `hapsta init`), we load:

- `<cliRootDir>/.env`
- `<cliRootDir>/env.local` (prefix-aware for `HAPPIER_STACK_*`)

### 2) Repo `.env` fallback (dev convenience)

Even when home config exists, we also load:

- `<cliRootDir>/.env` (non-overriding fallback)

This exists so repo-local dev settings (example: `HAPPY_CODEX_BIN`) can work without forcing everyone to duplicate them into `~/.happier-stack/env.local`.

Notes:
- This is a **fallback only** (`override: false`): it won’t stomp on values already provided by the environment or home config.
- We intentionally do **not** auto-load `<cliRootDir>/env.local` in this “home config exists” path, because it’s higher-precedence and can unexpectedly fight stack config.

### 3) Stack env overlay (highest precedence)

Finally, we load the active stack env file (override = true):

- `HAPPIER_STACK_ENV_FILE`
- if neither is set, we auto-select the env file for the current stack (defaults to `main`) if it exists

Stack env files are allowed to contain **non-prefixed keys** (like `DATABASE_URL`) because that’s required for per-stack isolation.

---

## What should go where? (rules of thumb)

- Put **global, machine-wide defaults** in `~/.happier-stack/.env`.
- Put **your personal overrides** in `~/.happier-stack/env.local`.
- Put **per-stack isolation config** in the stack env file `~/.happier/stacks/<name>/env` (this is what `hapsta stack edit` and `hapsta stack wt` mutate).
- Put **repo-local dev-only defaults** in `<cliRootDir>/.env` (works best when you’re actually running from that checkout as the CLI root dir).

---

## Sandbox / test installs (fully isolated)

If you want to test the full install + setup flows without touching your real installation, run with:

```bash
npx @happier-dev/stack@latest --sandbox-dir /tmp/hapsta-sandbox where
```

In sandbox mode, Hapsta redirects **home/workspace/runtime/storage** under the sandbox folder (so you can `rm -rf` it to reset).

Global OS side effects (PATH edits, SwiftBar plugin install, LaunchAgents/systemd services) are **disabled by default** in sandbox mode.
To explicitly allow them for testing, set:

- `HAPPIER_STACK_SANDBOX_ALLOW_GLOBAL=1`

---

## Related docs

- `docs/stacks.md` (stacks lifecycle + commands)
- `docs/worktrees-and-forks.md` (worktrees layout + upstream/fork workflows)

Commit message:

refactor(stack): rename hapsta to hstack
Update CLI/branding references from `hapsta`/`Hapsta` to `hstack` across docs, agent prompts, templates, edison wrappers, and helper scripts in apps/stack. This changes stack- and edison-related example commands, evidence capture flows, auth instructions, worktree/stack commands, and system prompt files to use the new `hstack` name.

BREAKING CHANGE: developer workflows and scripts referencing `hapsta` must be updated or aliased to `hstack`; CI/docs may need verification to ensure the renamed CLI entrypoint is available.

apps/stack/docs/paths-and-env.md, after:

# Paths, folders, and env precedence

This doc explains the **directories** that hstack uses (home/workspace/runtime/stacks), and the **environment file precedence** used by `hstack`.

If you’re ever unsure what your machine is actually using, run:

```bash
hstack where
```

---

## Quick glossary

- **CLI root dir**
  - The directory containing the `@happier-dev/stack` scripts (`scripts/*.mjs`) that your `hstack` command is currently executing.
  - This is *not* necessarily your current shell `cwd`.
  - It can be:
    - a cloned repo checkout (e.g. `/Users/<you>/.../happier-dev`), or
    - the installed runtime package under `~/.happier-stack/runtime/node_modules/@happier-dev/stack` (see “Runtime dir”).

- **Home dir** (`HAPPIER_STACK_HOME_DIR`)
  - Default: `~/.happier-stack`
  - Stores **global user config** + caches, and may include a runtime install.

- **Runtime dir** (`HAPPIER_STACK_RUNTIME_DIR`)
  - Default: `~/.happier-stack/runtime`
  - Used by `hstack self update` to install/upgrade a pinned `@happier-dev/stack` runtime package.

- **Workspace dir** (`HAPPIER_STACK_WORKSPACE_DIR`)
  - Default: `~/.happier-stack/workspace` (when it exists).
  - This is the **storage workspace for the Happier monorepo checkout + worktrees** used by hstack.
  - It typically contains:
    - `<workspace>/happier` (the default monorepo checkout)
    - `<workspace>/.worktrees/<owner>/<branch...>` (repo worktrees)

- **Repo dir** (`HAPPIER_STACK_REPO_DIR`)
  - Default: `<workspace>/happier`
  - This is the active Happier monorepo checkout (either the default checkout, or a worktree).
  - `hstack wt use ...` and `hstack stack wt <stack> -- use ...` update this value.

- **Worktrees root**
  - Default: `<workspace>/.worktrees`
  - Stores monorepo worktrees under: `<workspace>/.worktrees/<owner>/<branch...>`

- **Stacks storage dir**
  - Default: `~/.happier/stacks`
  - Each stack lives under `~/.happier/stacks/<name>/...` and has its own env file:
    - `~/.happier/stacks/<name>/env`

---

## “Where am I actually running from?”

`hstack` may **re-exec** to a different CLI root dir (for example, when you use an installed shim but want it to run a local checkout).

- Run `hstack where` to see:
  - **rootDir** (CLI root dir)
  - **homeDir** (stacks home dir)
  - **runtimeDir**
  - **workspaceDir**
  - resolved env file paths

Tip: `hstack where --json` is easier to parse.

---

## Env files + precedence (lowest → highest)

hstack loads env in `scripts/utils/env.mjs`.

### 0) “Canonical pointer” env (discovery)

If `HAPPIER_STACK_HOME_DIR` is *not* set, we first try to read the **canonical pointer** env file to discover the intended home dir (useful for LaunchAgents / SwiftBar / minimal shells).

- Default canonical pointer path: `~/.happier-stack/.env`
- Override canonical pointer location:
  - `HAPPIER_STACK_CANONICAL_HOME_DIR=/some/dir` (pointer becomes `<dir>/.env`)

### 1) Global defaults (home config) OR cloned-repo defaults

If home config exists, we load:

- `~/.happier-stack/.env` (**defaults**)
- `~/.happier-stack/env.local` (**overrides**, prefix-aware for `HAPPIER_STACK_*`)

If home config does *not* exist (cloned repo usage before `hstack init`), we load:

- `<cliRootDir>/.env`
- `<cliRootDir>/env.local` (prefix-aware for `HAPPIER_STACK_*`)

### 2) Repo `.env` fallback (dev convenience)

Even when home config exists, we also load:

- `<cliRootDir>/.env` (non-overriding fallback)

This exists so repo-local dev settings (example: `HAPPY_CODEX_BIN`) can work without forcing everyone to duplicate them into `~/.happier-stack/env.local`.

Notes:
- This is a **fallback only** (`override: false`): it won’t stomp on values already provided by the environment or home config.
- We intentionally do **not** auto-load `<cliRootDir>/env.local` in this “home config exists” path, because it’s higher-precedence and can unexpectedly fight stack config.

### 3) Stack env overlay (highest precedence)

Finally, we load the active stack env file (override = true):

- `HAPPIER_STACK_ENV_FILE`
- if neither is set, we auto-select the env file for the current stack (defaults to `main`) if it exists

Stack env files are allowed to contain **non-prefixed keys** (like `DATABASE_URL`) because that’s required for per-stack isolation.

---

## What should go where? (rules of thumb)

- Put **global, machine-wide defaults** in `~/.happier-stack/.env`.
- Put **your personal overrides** in `~/.happier-stack/env.local`.
- Put **per-stack isolation config** in the stack env file `~/.happier/stacks/<name>/env` (this is what `hstack stack edit` and `hstack stack wt` mutate).
- Put **repo-local dev-only defaults** in `<cliRootDir>/.env` (works best when you’re actually running from that checkout as the CLI root dir).

---

## Sandbox / test installs (fully isolated)

If you want to test the full install + setup flows without touching your real installation, run with:

```bash
npx @happier-dev/stack@latest --sandbox-dir /tmp/hstack-sandbox where
```

In sandbox mode, hstack redirects **home/workspace/runtime/storage** under the sandbox folder (so you can `rm -rf` it to reset).

Global OS side effects (PATH edits, SwiftBar plugin install, LaunchAgents/systemd services) are **disabled by default** in sandbox mode.
To explicitly allow them for testing, set:

- `HAPPIER_STACK_SANDBOX_ALLOW_GLOBAL=1`

---

## Related docs

- `docs/stacks.md` (stacks lifecycle + commands)
- `docs/worktrees-and-forks.md` (worktrees layout + upstream/fork workflows)
