apps/stack/docs/stacks.md, before:

# Stacks (multiple local Happier instances)

`hapsta` supports running **multiple stacks** in parallel on the same machine.

A “stack” is just:

- a dedicated **server port**
- isolated directories for **UI build output**, **CLI home**, and **logs**
- a repo checkout pin (point at a specific worktree/checkout)
- (when using `happy-server`) isolated **infra** (Postgres/Redis/Minio) managed per-stack

Stacks are configured via a plain env file stored under:

```
~/.happier/stacks/<name>/env
```

## Create a stack

Non-interactive:

```bash
hapsta stack new exp1 --port=3010 --server=happy-server-light
```

Auto-pick a port:

```bash
hapsta stack new exp2
```

## Create a PR test stack (copy/paste friendly)

If you want maintainers to be able to try your PR quickly, you can give them a single command that:

- creates an isolated stack
- checks out PR(s) into worktrees
- pins those worktrees to the stack
- optionally seeds auth
- optionally starts the stack in dev mode

Example (most common):

```bash
hapsta stack pr pr123 \
  --repo=https://github.com/leeroybrun/happier-dev/pull/123 \
  --seed-auth --copy-auth-from=dev-auth --link-auth \
  --dev
```

Notes:

- `--remote` (default `upstream`) controls which Git remote is used to fetch `refs/pull/<n>/head`.
- `--seed-auth` uses `hapsta stack auth <stack> copy-from <source>` under the hood, which also best-effort seeds DB Account rows (avoids FK errors like Prisma `P2003`).
- `--link-auth` symlinks auth files instead of copying them (keeps credentials in sync, but reduces isolation).
 - For full-server stacks (`happy-server`), seeding may require Docker infra to be running.

Interactive wizard (TTY only):

```bash
hapsta stack new --interactive
```

The wizard lets you:

- pick the server type (`happy-server-light` or `happy-server`)
- pick or create a repo worktree for the Happier monorepo
- choose which Git remote to base newly-created worktrees on (defaults to `upstream`)

When creating `--server=happy-server` stacks, hapsta will also reserve additional ports and persist
the stack-scoped infra config in the stack env file (so restarts are stable):

- `HAPPIER_STACK_PG_PORT`
- `HAPPIER_STACK_REDIS_PORT`
- `HAPPIER_STACK_MINIO_PORT`
- `HAPPIER_STACK_MINIO_CONSOLE_PORT`
- `DATABASE_URL`, `REDIS_URL`, `S3_*`

## Run a stack

Dev mode:

```bash
hapsta stack dev exp1
```

Production-like mode:

```bash
hapsta stack start exp1
```

Build UI for a stack (server-light serving):

```bash
hapsta stack build exp1
```

Doctor:

```bash
hapsta stack doctor exp1
```

## Edit a stack (interactive)

To change server flavor, port, or component worktrees for an existing stack:

```bash
hapsta stack edit exp1 --interactive
```

## Switch server flavor for a stack

You can change `happy-server-light` vs `happy-server` for an existing stack without re-running the full edit wizard:

```bash
hapsta stack srv exp1 -- status
hapsta stack srv exp1 -- use happy-server-light
hapsta stack srv exp1 -- use happy-server
hapsta stack srv exp1 -- use --interactive
```

## Switch component worktrees for a stack (`stack wt`)

If you want the **exact** same UX as `hapsta wt`, but scoped to a stack env file:

```bash
hapsta stack wt exp1 -- status
hapsta stack wt exp1 -- use slopus/pr/my-ui-pr
hapsta stack wt exp1 -- use default
```

This updates the stack env file (`~/.happier/stacks/<name>/env`), not repo `env.local` (legacy path still supported).

## Run happy-cli against a specific stack (`stack happy`)

If you want to run a `happy` CLI command against a specific stack (instead of whatever your current shell env points at), use:

```bash
hapsta stack happy exp1 -- status
hapsta stack happy exp1 -- daemon status
```

Stack shorthand also works:

```bash
hapsta exp1 happy status
```

## Stack wrappers you can use

These commands run with the stack env file applied:

- `hapsta stack dev <name>`
- `hapsta stack start <name>`
- `hapsta stack build <name>`
- `hapsta stack doctor <name>`
- `hapsta stack mobile <name>`
- `hapsta stack eas <name> [subcommand...]`
- `hapsta stack happy <name> [-- ...]`
- `hapsta stack srv <name> -- status|use ...`
- `hapsta stack wt <name> -- <wt args...>`
- `hapsta stack tailscale:status|enable|disable|url <name>`
- `hapsta stack service:* <name>`

Global/non-stack commands:

- `hapsta setup` (recommended; installs shims/runtime and bootstraps components)
- (advanced) `hapsta init` (plumbing: shims/runtime/pointer env)
- (advanced) `hapsta bootstrap` (clone/install components and deps)

## Services (autostart)

Each stack can have its own autostart service (so multiple stacks can start at login).

```bash
hapsta stack service exp1 install
hapsta stack service exp1 status
hapsta stack service exp1 restart
hapsta stack service exp1 logs
```

Implementation notes:

- Service name/label is stack-scoped:
  - `main` → `com.happier.stack`
  - `exp1` → `com.happier.stack.exp1`
- macOS: implemented via **launchd LaunchAgents**
- Linux: implemented via **systemd user services** (if available)
- The service persists `HAPPIER_STACK_ENV_FILE`, so you can edit the stack env file without reinstalling.

## Component/worktree selection per stack

When creating a stack you can point the stack at a repo worktree:

```bash
hapsta stack new exp3 \\
  --repo=slopus/pr/my-feature \\
  --server=happy-server
```

Worktree specs are interpreted as:

```
<workspace>/.worktrees/<spec...>
```

So `--repo=slopus/pr/foo` maps to:

```
<workspace>/.worktrees/slopus/pr/foo
```

You can also pass an absolute path.

## Stack env + repo env precedence

On startup, `hapsta` loads env in this order:

1. `~/.happier-stack/.env` (defaults)
2. `~/.happier-stack/env.local` (optional global overrides; prefer stack env for persistent config)
3. `HAPPIER_STACK_ENV_FILE` (stack env; highest precedence)

`hapsta stack ...` sets `HAPPIER_STACK_ENV_FILE=~/.happier/stacks/<name>/env` and clears any already-exported `HAPPIER_STACK_*` variables so the stack env stays authoritative.

For a full explanation of the different folders/paths (`home` vs `workspace` vs `runtime` vs stack storage) and the exact env precedence rules, see: `[docs/paths-and-env.md](docs/paths-and-env.md)`.

Cloned-repo fallback (before you run `hapsta init`):

1. `<repo>/.env` (defaults)
2. `<repo>/env.local` (optional overrides)
3. `HAPPIER_STACK_ENV_FILE` (stack env)

## Manage per-stack environment variables (including API keys)

To add/update environment variables in a stack env file from the CLI:

```bash
hapsta stack env <stack> set KEY=VALUE [KEY2=VALUE2...]
```

To remove keys:

```bash
hapsta stack env <stack> unset KEY [KEY2...]
```

To inspect:

```bash
hapsta stack env <stack> get KEY
hapsta stack env <stack> list
hapsta stack env <stack> path
```

Notes:

- This is the recommended place for **provider API keys** the daemon needs (example: `OPENAI_API_KEY`).
- Changes apply on the **next start** of the stack/daemon. Restart to pick them up:
  - `main`: `hapsta start --restart`
  - named stack: `hapsta stack start <stack> -- --restart` (or `hapsta stack dev <stack> -- --restart`)

Self-host shortcut (defaults to `main` when not running under a stack wrapper):

```bash
hapsta env set OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
```

## Daemon auth + “no machine” on first run

On a **fresh machine** (or any new stack), the daemon may need to authenticate before it can register a “machine”.
If the UI shows “no machine” (or the daemon shows `auth_required`), it usually means the stack-specific CLI home
doesn’t have credentials yet:

- `~/.happier/stacks/<stack>/cli/access.key`

To check / authenticate a stack, run:

```bash
hapsta stack auth <stack> status
hapsta stack auth <stack> login
```

Notes:
- You can run **multiple daemons for the same stack** on **different accounts** using `--identity=<name>`.
  - `default` (no flag): `~/.happier/stacks/<stack>/cli/...`
  - `--identity=account-b`: `~/.happier/stacks/<stack>/cli-identities/account-b/...`
- To authenticate an identity without auto-opening a browser, use `--no-open` (it prints the URL so you can open it
  in the browser profile/incognito window you want):

```bash
hapsta stack auth <stack> login --identity=account-a --no-open
hapsta stack auth <stack> login --identity=account-b --no-open
```

- To start/stop an identity’s daemon explicitly:

```bash
hapsta stack daemon <stack> start --identity=account-a
hapsta stack daemon <stack> stop  --identity=account-a
```

- For the **main** stack, use `<stack>=main` and the default `<port>=3005` (unless you changed it).
- If you use Tailscale Serve, `HAPPY_WEBAPP_URL` should be your HTTPS URL (what you get from `hapsta tailscale url`).
- Logs live under:
  - default identity: `~/.happier/stacks/<stack>/cli/logs/`
  - named identities: `~/.happier/stacks/<stack>/cli-identities/<identity>/logs/`

## JSON mode

For programmatic usage:

```bash
hapsta stack list --json
hapsta stack new exp3 --json
hapsta stack edit exp3 --interactive --json
```

Commit message:

docs(stack): use monorepo worktree wording
Standardize agent prompts and docs to recommend working in git worktrees for monorepo checkouts and clarify hapsta usage. Replaces "component worktrees" guidance with "monorepo worktrees", changes wording to reference repo checkouts/worktrees, expands `hapsta stack wt -- use` options (owner/branch|path|default|main), and updates evidence fingerprinting wording to "repo/worktree". Also removes the components/ entry from apps/stack/.gitignore and includes minor newline/format fixes. Affects multiple agent prompts (.claude, .cursor, .pal), edison overlay, README, docs and scripts.

apps/stack/docs/stacks.md, after:

# Stacks (multiple local Happier instances)

`hapsta` supports running **multiple stacks** in parallel on the same machine.

A “stack” is just:

- a dedicated **server port**
- isolated directories for **UI build output**, **CLI home**, and **logs**
- a repo checkout pin (point at a specific worktree/checkout)
- (when using `happy-server`) isolated **infra** (Postgres/Redis/Minio) managed per-stack

Stacks are configured via a plain env file stored under:

```
~/.happier/stacks/<name>/env
```

## Create a stack

Non-interactive:

```bash
hapsta stack new exp1 --port=3010 --server=happy-server-light
```

Auto-pick a port:

```bash
hapsta stack new exp2
```

## Create a PR test stack (copy/paste friendly)

If you want maintainers to be able to try your PR quickly, you can give them a single command that:

- creates an isolated stack
- checks out PR(s) into worktrees
- pins those worktrees to the stack
- optionally seeds auth
- optionally starts the stack in dev mode

Example (most common):

```bash
hapsta stack pr pr123 \
  --repo=https://github.com/leeroybrun/happier-dev/pull/123 \
  --seed-auth --copy-auth-from=dev-auth --link-auth \
  --dev
```

Notes:

- `--remote` (default `upstream`) controls which Git remote is used to fetch `refs/pull/<n>/head`.
- `--seed-auth` uses `hapsta stack auth <stack> copy-from <source>` under the hood, which also best-effort seeds DB Account rows (avoids FK errors like Prisma `P2003`).
- `--link-auth` symlinks auth files instead of copying them (keeps credentials in sync, but reduces isolation).
 - For full-server stacks (`happy-server`), seeding may require Docker infra to be running.

Interactive wizard (TTY only):

```bash
hapsta stack new --interactive
```

The wizard lets you:

- pick the server type (`happy-server-light` or `happy-server`)
- pick or create a repo worktree for the Happier monorepo
- choose which Git remote to base newly-created worktrees on (defaults to `upstream`)

When creating `--server=happy-server` stacks, hapsta will also reserve additional ports and persist
the stack-scoped infra config in the stack env file (so restarts are stable):

- `HAPPIER_STACK_PG_PORT`
- `HAPPIER_STACK_REDIS_PORT`
- `HAPPIER_STACK_MINIO_PORT`
- `HAPPIER_STACK_MINIO_CONSOLE_PORT`
- `DATABASE_URL`, `REDIS_URL`, `S3_*`

## Run a stack

Dev mode:

```bash
hapsta stack dev exp1
```

Production-like mode:

```bash
hapsta stack start exp1
```

Build UI for a stack (server-light serving):

```bash
hapsta stack build exp1
```

Doctor:

```bash
hapsta stack doctor exp1
```

## Edit a stack (interactive)

To change server flavor, port, or repo worktree for an existing stack:

```bash
hapsta stack edit exp1 --interactive
```

## Switch server flavor for a stack

You can change `happy-server-light` vs `happy-server` for an existing stack without re-running the full edit wizard:

```bash
hapsta stack srv exp1 -- status
hapsta stack srv exp1 -- use happy-server-light
hapsta stack srv exp1 -- use happy-server
hapsta stack srv exp1 -- use --interactive
```

## Switch repo worktree for a stack (`stack wt`)

If you want the **exact** same UX as `hapsta wt`, but scoped to a stack env file:

```bash
hapsta stack wt exp1 -- status
hapsta stack wt exp1 -- use slopus/pr/my-ui-pr
hapsta stack wt exp1 -- use default
```

This updates the stack env file (`~/.happier/stacks/<name>/env`), not repo `env.local` (legacy path still supported).

## Run happy-cli against a specific stack (`stack happy`)

If you want to run a `happy` CLI command against a specific stack (instead of whatever your current shell env points at), use:

```bash
hapsta stack happy exp1 -- status
hapsta stack happy exp1 -- daemon status
```

Stack shorthand also works:

```bash
hapsta exp1 happy status
```

## Stack wrappers you can use

These commands run with the stack env file applied:

- `hapsta stack dev <name>`
- `hapsta stack start <name>`
- `hapsta stack build <name>`
- `hapsta stack doctor <name>`
- `hapsta stack mobile <name>`
- `hapsta stack eas <name> [subcommand...]`
- `hapsta stack happy <name> [-- ...]`
- `hapsta stack srv <name> -- status|use ...`
- `hapsta stack wt <name> -- <wt args...>`
- `hapsta stack tailscale:status|enable|disable|url <name>`
- `hapsta stack service:* <name>`

Global/non-stack commands:

- `hapsta setup` (recommended; installs shims/runtime and bootstraps the monorepo)
- (advanced) `hapsta init` (plumbing: shims/runtime/pointer env)
- (advanced) `hapsta bootstrap` (clone/install monorepo + deps)

## Services (autostart)

Each stack can have its own autostart service (so multiple stacks can start at login).

```bash
hapsta stack service exp1 install
hapsta stack service exp1 status
hapsta stack service exp1 restart
hapsta stack service exp1 logs
```

Implementation notes:

- Service name/label is stack-scoped:
  - `main` → `com.happier.stack`
  - `exp1` → `com.happier.stack.exp1`
- macOS: implemented via **launchd LaunchAgents**
- Linux: implemented via **systemd user services** (if available)
- The service persists `HAPPIER_STACK_ENV_FILE`, so you can edit the stack env file without reinstalling.

## Repo/worktree selection per stack

When creating a stack you can point the stack at a repo worktree:

```bash
hapsta stack new exp3 \\
  --repo=slopus/pr/my-feature \\
  --server=happy-server
```

Worktree specs are interpreted as:

```
<workspace>/.worktrees/<spec...>
```

So `--repo=slopus/pr/foo` maps to:

```
<workspace>/.worktrees/slopus/pr/foo
```

You can also pass an absolute path.

## Stack env + repo env precedence

On startup, `hapsta` loads env in this order:

1. `~/.happier-stack/.env` (defaults)
2. `~/.happier-stack/env.local` (optional global overrides; prefer stack env for persistent config)
3. `HAPPIER_STACK_ENV_FILE` (stack env; highest precedence)

`hapsta stack ...` sets `HAPPIER_STACK_ENV_FILE=~/.happier/stacks/<name>/env` and clears any already-exported `HAPPIER_STACK_*` variables so the stack env stays authoritative.

For a full explanation of the different folders/paths (`home` vs `workspace` vs `runtime` vs stack storage) and the exact env precedence rules, see: `[docs/paths-and-env.md](docs/paths-and-env.md)`.

Cloned-repo fallback (before you run `hapsta init`):

1. `<repo>/.env` (defaults)
2. `<repo>/env.local` (optional overrides)
3. `HAPPIER_STACK_ENV_FILE` (stack env)

## Manage per-stack environment variables (including API keys)

To add/update environment variables in a stack env file from the CLI:

```bash
hapsta stack env <stack> set KEY=VALUE [KEY2=VALUE2...]
```

To remove keys:

```bash
hapsta stack env <stack> unset KEY [KEY2...]
```

To inspect:

```bash
hapsta stack env <stack> get KEY
hapsta stack env <stack> list
hapsta stack env <stack> path
```

Notes:

- This is the recommended place for **provider API keys** the daemon needs (example: `OPENAI_API_KEY`).
- Changes apply on the **next start** of the stack/daemon. Restart to pick them up:
  - `main`: `hapsta start --restart`
  - named stack: `hapsta stack start <stack> -- --restart` (or `hapsta stack dev <stack> -- --restart`)

Self-host shortcut (defaults to `main` when not running under a stack wrapper):

```bash
hapsta env set OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
```

## Daemon auth + “no machine” on first run

On a **fresh machine** (or any new stack), the daemon may need to authenticate before it can register a “machine”.
If the UI shows “no machine” (or the daemon shows `auth_required`), it usually means the stack-specific CLI home
doesn’t have credentials yet:

- `~/.happier/stacks/<stack>/cli/access.key`

To check / authenticate a stack, run:

```bash
hapsta stack auth <stack> status
hapsta stack auth <stack> login
```

Notes:
- You can run **multiple daemons for the same stack** on **different accounts** using `--identity=<name>`.
  - `default` (no flag): `~/.happier/stacks/<stack>/cli/...`
  - `--identity=account-b`: `~/.happier/stacks/<stack>/cli-identities/account-b/...`
- To authenticate an identity without auto-opening a browser, use `--no-open` (it prints the URL so you can open it
  in the browser profile/incognito window you want):

```bash
hapsta stack auth <stack> login --identity=account-a --no-open
hapsta stack auth <stack> login --identity=account-b --no-open
```

- To start/stop an identity’s daemon explicitly:

```bash
hapsta stack daemon <stack> start --identity=account-a
hapsta stack daemon <stack> stop  --identity=account-a
```

- For the **main** stack, use `<stack>=main` and the default `<port>=3005` (unless you changed it).
- If you use Tailscale Serve, `HAPPY_WEBAPP_URL` should be your HTTPS URL (what you get from `hapsta tailscale url`).
- Logs live under:
  - default identity: `~/.happier/stacks/<stack>/cli/logs/`
  - named identities: `~/.happier/stacks/<stack>/cli-identities/<identity>/logs/`

## JSON mode

For programmatic usage:

```bash
hapsta stack list --json
hapsta stack new exp3 --json
hapsta stack edit exp3 --interactive --json
```
