apps/stack/README.md, before:

# hstack (Happier Stack)

Run [**Happier**](https://app.happier.dev) locally and access it remotely and securely (using Tailscale).

## What is Happier?

Happier is an UI/CLI stack (server + web UI + CLI + daemon) who let you monitor and interact with Claude Code, Codex and Gemini sessions from your mobile, from a web UI and/or from a desktop app.

## What is hstack?

hstack is a guided installer + local orchestration CLI for Happier.

If you only want to **use Happier** and self-host it on your computer, start with the **Self-host** section below.
If you want to **develop Happier** (worktrees, multiple stacks, upstream PR workflows), see the **Development** section further down.

## Self-host Happier (install + run)

### Quickstart

```bash
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack setup --profile=selfhost
```

Follow the guided instructions to install Happier and launch it.

### Daily use

#### Configure provider API keys for the daemon

If you want the daemon to have access to provider API keys (for example OpenAI), you can set them so they are automatically loaded when the daemon starts:

```bash
hstack env set OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
```

Then restart so the daemon picks up the new environment:

```bash
hstack start --restart
```

### Start Happier

Starts the local server, CLI daemon, and serves the pre-built UI.

```bash
hstack start
```

### Authentication

On a **fresh machine**, the daemon needs to authenticate once before it can register a “machine”.

```bash
hstack auth login
```

If you want a quick diagnosis:

```bash
hstack auth status
```

### Enable Tailscale Serve (recommended for mobile/remote)

```bash
hstack tailscale enable
hstack tailscale url
```

### Mobile access

Make sure Tailscale is [installed and running](https://tailscale.com/kb/1347/installation) on your 
phone, then either:

- Open the URL from `hstack tailscale url` on your phone and “Add to Home Screen”, or
- [Download the Happier mobile app]
([https://app.happier.dev](https://app.happier.dev)) and [configure it to use 
your local server](docs/remote-access.md).

Details (secure context, phone instructions, automation knobs): `[docs/remote-access.md](docs/remote-access.md)`.

## Development (worktrees, stacks, contributor workflows)

If you want to **develop Happier** (worktrees, multiple stacks, upstream PR workflows), you can install hstack for development with:

### Setup (guided)

```bash
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack setup --profile=dev
```

During setup, you’ll be guided through:

- where to store your **workspace** (the folder that will contain `main/`, `dev/`, `pr/`, `local/`, `tmp/`)
- bootstrapping/cloning the Happier monorepo
- **recommended**: setting up a dedicated `dev-auth` seed stack (authenticate once, then new stacks can reuse it)
- **recommended**: creating a dedicated dev stack (keep `main` stable)
- optional: installing the iOS dev-client app (for phone testing)

You can also set it non-interactively:

```bash
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack setup --profile=dev --workspace-dir=~/Documents/Development/happier
```

### Why this exists

- **Automated setup**: `hstack setup` + `hstack start` gets the whole stack up and running.
- **No hosted dependency**: run the full stack on your own computer.
- **Lower latency**: localhost/LAN is typically much faster than remote hosted servers.
- **Custom forks**: easily use forks while still contributing upstream to `happier-dev/happier`.
- **Worktrees**: clean upstream PR branches without mixing fork-only patches.
- **Stacks**: run multiple isolated instances in parallel (ports + dirs + repo pinning).
- **Remote access**: `hstack tailscale ...` helps you get an HTTPS URL for mobile/remote devices.

### How hstack wires “local” URLs

There are two “URLs” to understand:

- **Internal URL**: used by local processes on this machine (server/daemon/CLI)
  - typically `http://127.0.0.1:<port>`
- **Public URL**: used by other devices (phone/laptop) and embedded links/QR codes
  - recommended: `https://<machine>.<tailnet>.ts.net` via Tailscale Serve

Diagram:

```text
             other device (phone/laptop)
                   |
                   |  HTTPS (secure context)
                   v
        https://<machine>.<tailnet>.ts.net
                   |
                   | (tailscale serve)
                   v
           local machine (this repo)
     +--------------------------------+
     | happy-server-light OR          |
     | happy-server (via UI gateway)  |
     |  - listens on :PORT            |
     |  - serves UI at /              |
     +--------------------------------+
                   ^
                   | internal loopback
                   |
            http://127.0.0.1:<port>
               (daemon / CLI)
```

More details + automation: `[docs/remote-access.md](docs/remote-access.md)`.

### How it’s organized

- **Scripts**: `scripts/*.mjs` (bootstrap/dev/start/build/stacks/worktrees/service/tailscale/mobile)
- **Stable checkout**: `<workspace>/main` (the monorepo clone; treated as read-only)
- **Dev checkout**: `<workspace>/dev` (created by `hstack setup --profile=dev`)
- **Worktrees**:
  - PRs: `<workspace>/pr/...`
  - locals: `<workspace>/local/<owner>/...`
  - tmp: `<workspace>/tmp/<owner>/...`
- **CWD-scoped commands**: if you run `hstack test/typecheck/lint` from inside `apps/ui` / `apps/cli` / `apps/server` and omit a target, hstack infers the “service” automatically; `hstack build/dev/start` also prefer the checkout you’re currently inside.

### Quickstarts (feature-focused)

#### Remote access (Tailscale Serve)

```bash
hstack tailscale enable
hstack tailscale url
```

Details: `[docs/remote-access.md](docs/remote-access.md)`.

#### Worktrees + forks (clean upstream PRs)

Create a clean local worktree:

```bash
hstack wt new my-feature --use
hstack wt push active --remote=origin
```

Test an upstream PR locally:

```bash
hstack wt pr https://github.com/happier-dev/happier/pull/123 --use
hstack wt pr 123 --update --stash
```

##### Developer quickstart: create a PR stack (isolated ports/dirs; idempotent updates)

This creates (or reuses) a named stack, checks out the monorepo PR worktree, optionally seeds auth, and starts the stack.
Re-run with `--reuse` to update the existing worktrees when the PR changes.

```bash
  hstack stack pr pr123 \
  --repo=https://github.com/happier-dev/happier/pull/123 \
  --seed-auth --copy-auth-from=dev-auth --link-auth \
  --dev
```

Optional: enable Expo dev-client for mobile reviewers (reuses the same Expo dev server; no second Metro process):

```bash
hstack stack pr pr123 --repo=123 --dev --mobile
```

Optional: run it in a self-contained sandbox folder (delete it to uninstall completely):

```bash
SANDBOX="$(mktemp -d /tmp/hstack-sandbox.XXXXXX)"
hstack --sandbox-dir "$SANDBOX" stack pr pr123 --repo=123 --dev
rm -rf "$SANDBOX"
```

Update when the PR changes:

- Re-run with `--reuse` to fast-forward worktrees when possible.
- If the PR was force-pushed, add `--force`.

```bash
hstack stack pr pr123 --repo=123 --reuse
hstack stack pr pr123 --repo=123 --reuse --force
```

##### Maintainer quickstart: one-shot “install + run PR stack” (idempotent)

This is the maintainer-friendly entrypoint. It is safe to re-run and will keep the PR stack wiring intact.

```bash
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack tools setup-pr \
  --repo=https://github.com/happier-dev/happier/pull/123 \
  --dev
```

Optional: enable Expo dev-client for mobile reviewers (works with both default `--dev` and `--start`):

```bash
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack tools setup-pr --repo=123 --dev --mobile
```

Optional: run it in a self-contained sandbox folder (auto-cleaned):

```bash
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack review-pr --happy=123 --happy-cli=456
```

Short form (PR numbers):

```bash
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack setup-pr --happy=123 --happy-cli=456
```

Override stack name (optional):

```bash
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack setup-pr --name=pr123 --happy=123 --happy-cli=456
```

Update when the PR changes:

- Re-run the same command to fast-forward the PR worktrees.
- If the PR was force-pushed, add `--force`.

```bash
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack setup-pr --happy=123 --happy-cli=456
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack setup-pr --happy=123 --happy-cli=456 --force
```

Details: `[docs/worktrees-and-forks.md](docs/worktrees-and-forks.md)`.

#### Server flavor (server-light vs full server)

- Use `happy-server-light` for a light local stack (no Redis, no Postgres, no Docker), and UI serving via server-light.
- Use `happy-server` when you need a more production-like server (Postgres + Redis + S3-compatible storage) or want to develop server changes for upstream.
  - hstack can **manage the required infra automatically per stack** (via Docker Compose) and runs a **UI gateway** so you still get a single `https://...ts.net` URL that serves the UI + proxies API/websockets/files.

Switch globally:

```bash
hstack srv status
hstack srv use --interactive
```

Switch per-stack:

```bash
hstack stack srv exp1 -- use --interactive
```

Details: `[docs/server-flavors.md](docs/server-flavors.md)`.

#### Stacks (multiple isolated instances)

```bash
hstack stack new exp1 --interactive
hstack stack dev exp1
```

Point a stack at a PR worktree:

```bash
hstack wt pr happy 123 --use
hstack stack wt exp1 -- use happy pr/123-fix-thing
hstack stack dev exp1
```

Details: `[docs/stacks.md](docs/stacks.md)`.

#### Dev stacks: browser origin isolation (IMPORTANT)

Non-main stacks use a stack-specific localhost hostname (no `/etc/hosts` changes required):

- `http://happy-<stack>.localhost:<uiPort>`

This avoids browser auth/session collisions between stacks (separate origin per stack).

#### Menu bar (SwiftBar)

```bash
hstack menubar install
hstack menubar open
```

Details: `[docs/menubar.md](docs/menubar.md)`.

#### Mobile iOS dev (optional)

```bash
# Install the shared hstack dev-client app on your iPhone:
hstack mobile-dev-client --install

# Install an isolated per-stack app (Release config, unique bundle id + scheme):
hstack stack mobile:install <stack> --name="Happier (<stack>)"
```

Details: `[docs/mobile-ios.md](docs/mobile-ios.md)`.

#### Reviewing PRs in an isolated sandbox

- **Unique hostname per run (default)**: `hstack review-pr` generates a unique stack name by default, which results in a unique `happy-<stack>.localhost` hostname. This prevents browser storage collisions when the sandbox is deleted between runs.
- **Reuse an existing sandbox**: if a previous run preserved a sandbox (e.g. `--keep-sandbox` or a failure in verbose mode), re-running `hstack review-pr` offers an interactive choice to reuse it (keeping the same hostname + on-disk auth), or create a fresh sandbox.

#### Tauri desktop app (optional)

```bash
hstack build --tauri
```

Details: `[docs/tauri.md](docs/tauri.md)`.

### Commands (high-signal)

- **Setup**:
  - `hstack setup` (guided; selfhost or dev)
  - (advanced) `hstack init` (plumbing: shims/runtime/pointer env)
  - (advanced) `hstack bootstrap --interactive` (workspace bootstrap wizard)
- **Run**:
  - `hstack start` (production-like; serves built UI via server-light)
  - `hstack dev` (dev; Expo dev server for UI, optional dev-client via `--mobile`)
- **Server flavor**:
  - `hstack srv status`
  - `hstack srv use --interactive`
- **Worktrees**:
  - `hstack wt use --interactive`
  - `hstack wt pr <pr-url|number> --use [--update] [--stash] [--force]`
  - `hstack wt sync-all`
  - `hstack wt update-all --dry-run` / `hstack wt update-all --stash`
- **Stacks**:
  - `hstack stack new --interactive`
  - `hstack stack dev <name>` / `hstack stack start <name>`
  - `hstack stack edit <name> --interactive`
  - `hstack stack wt <name> -- use --interactive`
  - `hstack stack happier <name> -- <happier-cli args...>`
- **Tools (maintainer / automation)**:
  - `hstack tools setup-pr --repo=<pr-url|number> [--dev|--start]`
  - `hstack tools review-pr --repo=<pr-url|number> [--dev|--start]`
  - `hstack tools review` (local diff review)
  - `hstack tools import` (split repos → monorepo porting helpers)
  - `hstack tools edison`
- **Menu bar (SwiftBar)**:
  - `hstack menubar install`

### Docs (deep dives)

- **Remote access (Tailscale + phone)**: `[docs/remote-access.md](docs/remote-access.md)`
- **Server flavors (server-light vs server)**: `[docs/server-flavors.md](docs/server-flavors.md)`
- **Worktrees + forks workflow**: `[docs/worktrees-and-forks.md](docs/worktrees-and-forks.md)`
- **Stacks (multiple instances)**: `[docs/stacks.md](docs/stacks.md)`
- **Paths + env precedence (home/workspace/runtime/stacks)**: `[docs/paths-and-env.md](docs/paths-and-env.md)`
- **Menu bar (SwiftBar)**: `[docs/menubar.md](docs/menubar.md)`
- **Mobile iOS dev**: `[docs/mobile-ios.md](docs/mobile-ios.md)`
- **Tauri desktop app**: `[docs/tauri.md](docs/tauri.md)`

### Configuration

Where config lives by default:

- `~/.happier-stack/.env`: stable “pointer” file (home/workspace/runtime)
- `~/.happier-stack/env.local`: optional global overrides
- `~/.happier/stacks/main/env`: main stack config (port, server flavor, repo/worktree override)

Notes:

- Canonical env prefix is `HAPPIER_STACK_*` (no legacy aliases).
- Canonical stack storage is `~/.happier/stacks`.
- To edit per-stack environment variables (including provider keys like `OPENAI_API_KEY`), use:

  ```bash
  hstack stack env <stack> set KEY=VALUE
  hstack stack env <stack> unset KEY
  hstack stack env <stack> get KEY
  hstack stack env <stack> list
  ```

- **Repo env templates**:
  - **Use `.env.example` as the canonical template** (copy it to `.env` if you’re running this repo directly).
  - If an LLM tool refuses to read/edit `.env.example` due to safety restrictions, **do not create an `env.example` workaround**—instead, ask the user to apply the change manually.

### Breaking changes (vs “Happy Stacks”)

- No compatibility/migration for previous installs: uninstall old setups and run `hstack setup` again.
- Env prefix is now `HAPPIER_STACK_*` (no legacy aliases like `HAPPY_STACKS_*` / `HAPPY_LOCAL_*`).
- Workspace/worktrees are monorepo-first (default workspace: `~/.happier-stack/workspace`, with `main/`, `dev/`, `pr/`, `local/`, `tmp/`).
- Yarn-only (no pnpm support).

### Sandbox / test installs (fully isolated)

If you want to test the full setup flow (including PR stacks) without impacting your “real” install, run everything with `--sandbox-dir`.
To fully uninstall the test run, stop the sandbox stacks and delete the sandbox folder.

```bash
SANDBOX="$(mktemp -d /tmp/hstack-sandbox.XXXXXX)"

# Run a PR stack (fully isolated install)
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack --sandbox-dir "$SANDBOX" setup-pr --happy=123 --happy-cli=456

# Tear down + uninstall
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack --sandbox-dir "$SANDBOX" stop --yes --no-service
rm -rf "$SANDBOX"
```

Notes:

- Sandbox mode disables global OS side effects (**PATH edits**, **SwiftBar plugin install**, **LaunchAgents/systemd services**, **Tailscale Serve enable/disable**) by default.
- To explicitly allow those for testing, set `HAPPIER_STACK_SANDBOX_ALLOW_GLOBAL=1` (still recommended to clean up after).

For contributor/LLM workflow expectations: `[AGENTS.md](AGENTS.md)`.

### Developing hstack itself

```bash
git clone https://github.com/happier-dev/happier.git
cd happier-dev

node ./apps/stack/bin/hstack.mjs setup --profile=dev
```

Notes:

- For local dev, prefer running stack commands via the `hstack` entrypoint (it applies stack-scoped env and safety gates).
- To make the installed `~/.happier-stack/bin/hstack` shim (LaunchAgents / SwiftBar) run your local checkout without publishing to npm, set:

```bash
echo 'HAPPIER_STACK_CLI_ROOT_DIR=/path/to/your/happier-dev-checkout' >> ~/.happier-stack/.env
```

Or (recommended) persist it via init:

```bash
hstack init --cli-root-dir=/path/to/your/happier-dev-checkout
```

Commit message:

feat(auth): add dev-auth seed command

apps/stack/README.md, after:

# hstack (Happier Stack)

Run [**Happier**](https://app.happier.dev) locally and access it remotely and securely (using Tailscale).

## What is Happier?

Happier is an UI/CLI stack (server + web UI + CLI + daemon) who let you monitor and interact with Claude Code, Codex and Gemini sessions from your mobile, from a web UI and/or from a desktop app.

## What is hstack?

hstack is a guided installer + local orchestration CLI for Happier.

If you only want to **use Happier** and self-host it on your computer, start with the **Self-host** section below.
If you want to **develop Happier** (worktrees, multiple stacks, upstream PR workflows), see the **Development** section further down.

## Self-host Happier (install + run)

### Quickstart

```bash
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack setup --profile=selfhost
```

Follow the guided instructions to install Happier and launch it.

### Daily use

#### Configure provider API keys for the daemon

If you want the daemon to have access to provider API keys (for example OpenAI), you can set them so they are automatically loaded when the daemon starts:

```bash
hstack env set OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
```

Then restart so the daemon picks up the new environment:

```bash
hstack start --restart
```

### Start Happier

Starts the local server, CLI daemon, and serves the pre-built UI.

```bash
hstack start
```

### Authentication

On a **fresh machine**, the daemon needs to authenticate once before it can register a “machine”.

```bash
hstack auth login
```

If you want a quick diagnosis:

```bash
hstack auth status
```

### Enable Tailscale Serve (recommended for mobile/remote)

```bash
hstack tailscale enable
hstack tailscale url
```

### Mobile access

Make sure Tailscale is [installed and running](https://tailscale.com/kb/1347/installation) on your 
phone, then either:

- Open the URL from `hstack tailscale url` on your phone and “Add to Home Screen”, or
- [Download the Happier mobile app]
([https://app.happier.dev](https://app.happier.dev)) and [configure it to use 
your local server](docs/remote-access.md).

Details (secure context, phone instructions, automation knobs): `[docs/remote-access.md](docs/remote-access.md)`.

## Development (worktrees, stacks, contributor workflows)

If you want to **develop Happier** (worktrees, multiple stacks, upstream PR workflows), you can install hstack for development with:

### Setup (guided)

```bash
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack setup --profile=dev
```

During setup, you’ll be guided through:

- where to store your **workspace** (the folder that will contain `main/`, `dev/`, `pr/`, `local/`, `tmp/`)
- bootstrapping/cloning the Happier monorepo
- **recommended**: setting up a dedicated `dev-auth` seed stack (authenticate once, then new stacks can reuse it)
- **recommended**: creating a dedicated dev stack (keep `main` stable)
- optional: installing the iOS dev-client app (for phone testing)

Manual shortcuts (if you want to do it yourself):

```bash
# Create the dev-auth seed stack (recommended) and do the guided login now:
hstack auth seed

# Create a dev stack and pin it to the dev checkout:
hstack stack new dev
hstack stack wt dev -- use dev
```

You can also set it non-interactively:

```bash
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack setup --profile=dev --workspace-dir=~/Documents/Development/happier
```

### Why this exists

- **Automated setup**: `hstack setup` + `hstack start` gets the whole stack up and running.
- **No hosted dependency**: run the full stack on your own computer.
- **Lower latency**: localhost/LAN is typically much faster than remote hosted servers.
- **Custom forks**: easily use forks while still contributing upstream to `happier-dev/happier`.
- **Worktrees**: clean upstream PR branches without mixing fork-only patches.
- **Stacks**: run multiple isolated instances in parallel (ports + dirs + repo pinning).
- **Remote access**: `hstack tailscale ...` helps you get an HTTPS URL for mobile/remote devices.

### How hstack wires “local” URLs

There are two “URLs” to understand:

- **Internal URL**: used by local processes on this machine (server/daemon/CLI)
  - typically `http://127.0.0.1:<port>`
- **Public URL**: used by other devices (phone/laptop) and embedded links/QR codes
  - recommended: `https://<machine>.<tailnet>.ts.net` via Tailscale Serve

Diagram:

```text
             other device (phone/laptop)
                   |
                   |  HTTPS (secure context)
                   v
        https://<machine>.<tailnet>.ts.net
                   |
                   | (tailscale serve)
                   v
           local machine (this repo)
     +--------------------------------+
     | happy-server-light OR          |
     | happy-server (via UI gateway)  |
     |  - listens on :PORT            |
     |  - serves UI at /              |
     +--------------------------------+
                   ^
                   | internal loopback
                   |
            http://127.0.0.1:<port>
               (daemon / CLI)
```

More details + automation: `[docs/remote-access.md](docs/remote-access.md)`.

### How it’s organized

- **Scripts**: `scripts/*.mjs` (bootstrap/dev/start/build/stacks/worktrees/service/tailscale/mobile)
- **Stable checkout**: `<workspace>/main` (the monorepo clone; treated as read-only)
- **Dev checkout**: `<workspace>/dev` (created by `hstack setup --profile=dev`)
- **Worktrees**:
  - PRs: `<workspace>/pr/...`
  - locals: `<workspace>/local/<owner>/...`
  - tmp: `<workspace>/tmp/<owner>/...`
- **CWD-scoped commands**: if you run `hstack test/typecheck/lint` from inside `apps/ui` / `apps/cli` / `apps/server` and omit a target, hstack infers the “service” automatically; `hstack build/dev/start` also prefer the checkout you’re currently inside.

### Quickstarts (feature-focused)

#### Remote access (Tailscale Serve)

```bash
hstack tailscale enable
hstack tailscale url
```

Details: `[docs/remote-access.md](docs/remote-access.md)`.

#### Worktrees + forks (clean upstream PRs)

Create a clean local worktree:

```bash
hstack wt new my-feature --use
hstack wt push active --remote=origin
```

Test an upstream PR locally:

```bash
hstack wt pr https://github.com/happier-dev/happier/pull/123 --use
hstack wt pr 123 --update --stash
```

##### Developer quickstart: create a PR stack (isolated ports/dirs; idempotent updates)

This creates (or reuses) a named stack, checks out the monorepo PR worktree, optionally seeds auth, and starts the stack.
Re-run with `--reuse` to update the existing worktrees when the PR changes.

```bash
  hstack stack pr pr123 \
  --repo=https://github.com/happier-dev/happier/pull/123 \
  --seed-auth --copy-auth-from=dev-auth --link-auth \
  --dev
```

Optional: enable Expo dev-client for mobile reviewers (reuses the same Expo dev server; no second Metro process):

```bash
hstack stack pr pr123 --repo=123 --dev --mobile
```

Optional: run it in a self-contained sandbox folder (delete it to uninstall completely):

```bash
SANDBOX="$(mktemp -d /tmp/hstack-sandbox.XXXXXX)"
hstack --sandbox-dir "$SANDBOX" stack pr pr123 --repo=123 --dev
rm -rf "$SANDBOX"
```

Update when the PR changes:

- Re-run with `--reuse` to fast-forward worktrees when possible.
- If the PR was force-pushed, add `--force`.

```bash
hstack stack pr pr123 --repo=123 --reuse
hstack stack pr pr123 --repo=123 --reuse --force
```

##### Maintainer quickstart: one-shot “install + run PR stack” (idempotent)

This is the maintainer-friendly entrypoint. It is safe to re-run and will keep the PR stack wiring intact.

```bash
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack tools setup-pr \
  --repo=https://github.com/happier-dev/happier/pull/123 \
  --dev
```

Optional: enable Expo dev-client for mobile reviewers (works with both default `--dev` and `--start`):

```bash
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack tools setup-pr --repo=123 --dev --mobile
```

Optional: run it in a self-contained sandbox folder (auto-cleaned):

```bash
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack review-pr --happy=123 --happy-cli=456
```

Short form (PR numbers):

```bash
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack setup-pr --happy=123 --happy-cli=456
```

Override stack name (optional):

```bash
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack setup-pr --name=pr123 --happy=123 --happy-cli=456
```

Update when the PR changes:

- Re-run the same command to fast-forward the PR worktrees.
- If the PR was force-pushed, add `--force`.

```bash
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack setup-pr --happy=123 --happy-cli=456
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack setup-pr --happy=123 --happy-cli=456 --force
```

Details: `[docs/worktrees-and-forks.md](docs/worktrees-and-forks.md)`.

#### Server flavor (server-light vs full server)

- Use `happy-server-light` for a light local stack (no Redis, no Postgres, no Docker), and UI serving via server-light.
- Use `happy-server` when you need a more production-like server (Postgres + Redis + S3-compatible storage) or want to develop server changes for upstream.
  - hstack can **manage the required infra automatically per stack** (via Docker Compose) and runs a **UI gateway** so you still get a single `https://...ts.net` URL that serves the UI + proxies API/websockets/files.

Switch globally:

```bash
hstack srv status
hstack srv use --interactive
```

Switch per-stack:

```bash
hstack stack srv exp1 -- use --interactive
```

Details: `[docs/server-flavors.md](docs/server-flavors.md)`.

#### Stacks (multiple isolated instances)

```bash
hstack stack new exp1 --interactive
hstack stack dev exp1
```

Point a stack at a PR worktree:

```bash
hstack wt pr happy 123 --use
hstack stack wt exp1 -- use happy pr/123-fix-thing
hstack stack dev exp1
```

Details: `[docs/stacks.md](docs/stacks.md)`.

#### Dev stacks: browser origin isolation (IMPORTANT)

Non-main stacks use a stack-specific localhost hostname (no `/etc/hosts` changes required):

- `http://happy-<stack>.localhost:<uiPort>`

This avoids browser auth/session collisions between stacks (separate origin per stack).

#### Menu bar (SwiftBar)

```bash
hstack menubar install
hstack menubar open
```

Details: `[docs/menubar.md](docs/menubar.md)`.

#### Mobile iOS dev (optional)

```bash
# Install the shared hstack dev-client app on your iPhone:
hstack mobile-dev-client --install

# Install an isolated per-stack app (Release config, unique bundle id + scheme):
hstack stack mobile:install <stack> --name="Happier (<stack>)"
```

Details: `[docs/mobile-ios.md](docs/mobile-ios.md)`.

#### Reviewing PRs in an isolated sandbox

- **Unique hostname per run (default)**: `hstack review-pr` generates a unique stack name by default, which results in a unique `happy-<stack>.localhost` hostname. This prevents browser storage collisions when the sandbox is deleted between runs.
- **Reuse an existing sandbox**: if a previous run preserved a sandbox (e.g. `--keep-sandbox` or a failure in verbose mode), re-running `hstack review-pr` offers an interactive choice to reuse it (keeping the same hostname + on-disk auth), or create a fresh sandbox.

#### Tauri desktop app (optional)

```bash
hstack build --tauri
```

Details: `[docs/tauri.md](docs/tauri.md)`.

### Commands (high-signal)

- **Setup**:
  - `hstack setup` (guided; selfhost or dev)
  - (advanced) `hstack init` (plumbing: shims/runtime/pointer env)
  - (advanced) `hstack bootstrap --interactive` (workspace bootstrap wizard)
- **Run**:
  - `hstack start` (production-like; serves built UI via server-light)
  - `hstack dev` (dev; Expo dev server for UI, optional dev-client via `--mobile`)
- **Server flavor**:
  - `hstack srv status`
  - `hstack srv use --interactive`
- **Worktrees**:
  - `hstack wt use --interactive`
  - `hstack wt pr <pr-url|number> --use [--update] [--stash] [--force]`
  - `hstack wt sync-all`
  - `hstack wt update-all --dry-run` / `hstack wt update-all --stash`
- **Stacks**:
  - `hstack stack new --interactive`
  - `hstack stack dev <name>` / `hstack stack start <name>`
  - `hstack stack edit <name> --interactive`
  - `hstack stack wt <name> -- use --interactive`
  - `hstack stack happier <name> -- <happier-cli args...>`
- **Tools (maintainer / automation)**:
  - `hstack tools setup-pr --repo=<pr-url|number> [--dev|--start]`
  - `hstack tools review-pr --repo=<pr-url|number> [--dev|--start]`
  - `hstack tools review` (local diff review)
  - `hstack tools import` (split repos → monorepo porting helpers)
  - `hstack tools edison`
- **Menu bar (SwiftBar)**:
  - `hstack menubar install`

### Docs (deep dives)

- **Remote access (Tailscale + phone)**: `[docs/remote-access.md](docs/remote-access.md)`
- **Server flavors (server-light vs server)**: `[docs/server-flavors.md](docs/server-flavors.md)`
- **Worktrees + forks workflow**: `[docs/worktrees-and-forks.md](docs/worktrees-and-forks.md)`
- **Stacks (multiple instances)**: `[docs/stacks.md](docs/stacks.md)`
- **Paths + env precedence (home/workspace/runtime/stacks)**: `[docs/paths-and-env.md](docs/paths-and-env.md)`
- **Menu bar (SwiftBar)**: `[docs/menubar.md](docs/menubar.md)`
- **Mobile iOS dev**: `[docs/mobile-ios.md](docs/mobile-ios.md)`
- **Tauri desktop app**: `[docs/tauri.md](docs/tauri.md)`

### Configuration

Where config lives by default:

- `~/.happier-stack/.env`: stable “pointer” file (home/workspace/runtime)
- `~/.happier-stack/env.local`: optional global overrides
- `~/.happier/stacks/main/env`: main stack config (port, server flavor, repo/worktree override)

Notes:

- Canonical env prefix is `HAPPIER_STACK_*` (no legacy aliases).
- Canonical stack storage is `~/.happier/stacks`.
- To edit per-stack environment variables (including provider keys like `OPENAI_API_KEY`), use:

  ```bash
  hstack stack env <stack> set KEY=VALUE
  hstack stack env <stack> unset KEY
  hstack stack env <stack> get KEY
  hstack stack env <stack> list
  ```

- **Repo env templates**:
  - **Use `.env.example` as the canonical template** (copy it to `.env` if you’re running this repo directly).
  - If an LLM tool refuses to read/edit `.env.example` due to safety restrictions, **do not create an `env.example` workaround**—instead, ask the user to apply the change manually.

### Breaking changes (vs “Happy Stacks”)

- No compatibility/migration for previous installs: uninstall old setups and run `hstack setup` again.
- Env prefix is now `HAPPIER_STACK_*` (no legacy aliases like `HAPPY_STACKS_*` / `HAPPY_LOCAL_*`).
- Workspace/worktrees are monorepo-first (default workspace: `~/.happier-stack/workspace`, with `main/`, `dev/`, `pr/`, `local/`, `tmp/`).
- Yarn-only (no pnpm support).

### Sandbox / test installs (fully isolated)

If you want to test the full setup flow (including PR stacks) without impacting your “real” install, run everything with `--sandbox-dir`.
To fully uninstall the test run, stop the sandbox stacks and delete the sandbox folder.

```bash
SANDBOX="$(mktemp -d /tmp/hstack-sandbox.XXXXXX)"

# Run a PR stack (fully isolated install)
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack --sandbox-dir "$SANDBOX" setup-pr --happy=123 --happy-cli=456

# Tear down + uninstall
npx --yes -p @happier-dev/stack hstack --sandbox-dir "$SANDBOX" stop --yes --no-service
rm -rf "$SANDBOX"
```

Notes:

- Sandbox mode disables global OS side effects (**PATH edits**, **SwiftBar plugin install**, **LaunchAgents/systemd services**, **Tailscale Serve enable/disable**) by default.
- To explicitly allow those for testing, set `HAPPIER_STACK_SANDBOX_ALLOW_GLOBAL=1` (still recommended to clean up after).

For contributor/LLM workflow expectations: `[AGENTS.md](AGENTS.md)`.

### Developing hstack itself

```bash
git clone https://github.com/happier-dev/happier.git
cd happier-dev

node ./apps/stack/bin/hstack.mjs setup --profile=dev
```

Notes:

- For local dev, prefer running stack commands via the `hstack` entrypoint (it applies stack-scoped env and safety gates).
- To make the installed `~/.happier-stack/bin/hstack` shim (LaunchAgents / SwiftBar) run your local checkout without publishing to npm, set:

```bash
echo 'HAPPIER_STACK_CLI_ROOT_DIR=/path/to/your/happier-dev-checkout' >> ~/.happier-stack/.env
```

Or (recommended) persist it via init:

```bash
hstack init --cli-root-dir=/path/to/your/happier-dev-checkout
```
