docs/encryption.md, before:

# Encryption and Data Encoding

This document details how client data is encrypted, how encrypted blobs are structured, and how those blobs map onto protocol fields. It is based on `packages/cli/src/api/encryption.ts` and the server routes that accept/emit these values.

For transport and event shapes, see `protocol.md`. For HTTP endpoints, see `api.md`.

## Overview

```mermaid
graph TB
    subgraph "Client (CLI/Mobile)"
        Plain[Plaintext Data]
        ClientEnc[Client Encryption]
        B64[Base64 Encoded]
    end

    subgraph "Transport"
        Wire[HTTP / WebSocket]
    end

    subgraph "Server"
        Store[(Postgres)]
        ServerEnc[Server Encryption]
        Tokens[Service Tokens]
    end

    Plain --> ClientEnc --> B64 --> Wire --> Store
    Tokens --> ServerEnc --> Store

    style Plain fill:#e8f5e9
    style B64 fill:#fff3e0
    style Store fill:#e3f2fd
```

## Design goals
- Keep the server blind to user content (end-to-end encryption on clients).
- Use explicit, stable binary layouts so clients can interoperate across versions.
- Prefer simple, consistent base64 encoding on the wire.

## Encryption variants

```mermaid
graph LR
    subgraph "Variant Selection"
        Check{Has dataKey?}
        Check --> |No| Legacy[Legacy NaCl]
        Check --> |Yes| DataKey[DataKey AES-GCM]
    end

    subgraph "Legacy"
        L1[XSalsa20-Poly1305]
        L2[32-byte shared secret]
    end

    subgraph "DataKey"
        D1[AES-256-GCM]
        D2[Per-session/machine key]
    end

    Legacy --> L1 & L2
    DataKey --> D1 & D2
```

Clients currently use one of two encryption variants:

### 1) legacy (NaCl secretbox)
Used when the client only has a shared secret key.

**Algorithm**: `tweetnacl.secretbox` (XSalsa20-Poly1305)
- **Nonce length**: 24 bytes
- **Key length**: 32 bytes

**Binary layout** (plaintext JSON -> bytes):
```
[ nonce (24) | ciphertext+auth (secretbox output) ]
```

```mermaid
packet-beta
  0-23: "nonce (24 bytes)"
  24-55: "ciphertext + auth tag"
```

### 2) dataKey (AES-256-GCM)
Used when the client supports per-session/per-machine data keys.

**Algorithm**: AES-256-GCM
- **Nonce length**: 12 bytes
- **Auth tag**: 16 bytes
- **Key length**: 32 bytes

**Binary layout**:
```
[ version (1) | nonce (12) | ciphertext (...) | authTag (16) ]
```

```mermaid
packet-beta
  0-0: "ver"
  1-12: "nonce (12 bytes)"
  13-44: "ciphertext (...)"
  45-60: "authTag (16 bytes)"
```

- `version` is currently `0`.

## Data encryption key (dataKey variant)

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    subgraph "Key Wrapping"
        DEK[Data Encryption Key]
        Eph[Ephemeral Keypair]
        Box[tweetnacl.box]
        Bundle[Key Bundle]
    end

    DEK --> Box
    Eph --> Box
    Box --> Bundle

    subgraph "Content Encryption"
        Plain[Plaintext]
        AES[AES-256-GCM]
        Cipher[Ciphertext]
    end

    DEK --> AES
    Plain --> AES --> Cipher
```

When `dataKey` is used, the actual content key is encrypted for storage/transport.

**Algorithm**: `tweetnacl.box` with an ephemeral keypair.
- **Ephemeral public key**: 32 bytes
- **Nonce**: 24 bytes

**Binary layout**:
```
[ ephPublicKey (32) | nonce (24) | ciphertext (...) ]
```

```mermaid
packet-beta
  0-31: "ephPublicKey (32 bytes)"
  32-55: "nonce (24 bytes)"
  56-87: "ciphertext (...)"
```

This blob is then wrapped with a version byte before being sent/stored:
```
[ version (1 = 0) | boxBundle (...) ]
```

The resulting bytes are base64-encoded and placed in fields such as `dataEncryptionKey` for sessions/machines/artifacts.

## Where encryption is applied

```mermaid
graph TB
    subgraph "Client-Encrypted Fields"
        direction TB
        S1[Session metadata]
        S2[Session agent state]
        S3[Session messages]
        M1[Machine metadata]
        M2[Daemon state]
        A1[Artifact header]
        A2[Artifact body]
        K1[KV store values]
        AK[Access keys]
    end

    subgraph "Server Storage"
        DB[(Postgres)]
    end

    S1 & S2 & S3 --> |opaque strings| DB
    M1 & M2 --> |opaque strings| DB
    A1 & A2 --> |opaque bytes| DB
    K1 --> |opaque bytes| DB
    AK --> |opaque string| DB

    style S1 fill:#e1f5fe
    style S2 fill:#e1f5fe
    style S3 fill:#e1f5fe
    style M1 fill:#e1f5fe
    style M2 fill:#e1f5fe
    style A1 fill:#e1f5fe
    style A2 fill:#e1f5fe
    style K1 fill:#e1f5fe
    style AK fill:#e1f5fe
```

The server treats these fields as opaque strings/blobs. The client encrypts them before sending.

### Session metadata + agent state
- **Encrypted by client** and stored as strings in the DB.
- Used in:
  - `POST /v1/sessions` (create/load)
  - WebSocket `update-metadata` / `update-state`
  - `update-session` events

### Session messages

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Client
    participant Server
    participant DB as Postgres

    Client->>Client: Encrypt message
    Client->>Server: emit "message" { sid, message: "<base64>" }
    Server->>DB: Store { t: "encrypted", c: "<base64>" }

    Note over Server: Later, sync to other clients

    Server->>Client: update "new-message"<br/>content: { t: "encrypted", c: "<base64>" }
    Client->>Client: Decrypt message
```

- Client emits `message` with a base64 encrypted blob.
- Server stores it as `SessionMessage.content`:
  - `{ t: "encrypted", c: "<base64>" }`
- Server emits it back in `new-message` updates with the same structure.

### Machine metadata + daemon state
- **Encrypted by client** and stored as strings in the DB.
- Used in:
  - `POST /v1/machines`
  - WebSocket `machine-update-metadata` / `machine-update-state`
  - `update-machine` events

### Artifacts
- `header` and `body` are encrypted bytes encoded as base64 on the wire.
- Stored as `Bytes` in the DB.
- Emitted in `new-artifact` / `update-artifact` events as base64 strings.

### Access keys
- `AccessKey.data` is treated as an **opaque encrypted string**.
- The server does not decode it or inspect its contents.

### Key-value store
- `UserKVStore.value` is encrypted bytes encoded as base64 on the wire.
- `kvMutate` expects base64 strings; `kvGet/list/bulk` return base64 strings.

## On-wire formats (encrypted fields)

```mermaid
graph LR
    subgraph "Wire Format"
        JSON[JSON payload]
        B64["base64 strings<br/>(encrypted bytes)"]
        Plain["plain values<br/>(ids, versions, timestamps)"]
    end

    JSON --> B64
    JSON --> Plain
```

Below are the typical JSON shapes that carry encrypted data. All `...` values are base64 strings representing encrypted bytes.

### Session creation
```http
POST /v1/sessions
```
```json
{
  "tag": "<string>",
  "metadata": "<base64 encrypted>",
  "agentState": "<base64 encrypted or null>",
  "dataEncryptionKey": "<base64 data key bundle or null>"
}
```

### Encrypted message (client -> server)
```
Socket emit: "message"
```
```json
{
  "sid": "<session id>",
  "message": "<base64 encrypted>"
}
```

### Encrypted message (server -> client)
```
update.body.t = "new-message"
```
```json
{
  "t": "encrypted",
  "c": "<base64 encrypted>"
}
```

### Session metadata update (WebSocket)
```
Socket emit: "update-metadata"
```
```json
{
  "sid": "<session id>",
  "metadata": "<base64 encrypted>",
  "expectedVersion": 3
}
```

### Machine update (WebSocket)
```
Socket emit: "machine-update-state"
```
```json
{
  "machineId": "<machine id>",
  "daemonState": "<base64 encrypted>",
  "expectedVersion": 2
}
```

### Artifact create/update (HTTP)
```http
POST /v1/artifacts
```
```json
{
  "id": "<uuid>",
  "header": "<base64 encrypted>",
  "body": "<base64 encrypted>",
  "dataEncryptionKey": "<base64 data key bundle>"
}
```

### KV mutate (HTTP)
```http
POST /v1/kv
```
```json
{
  "mutations": [
    { "key": "prefs.theme", "value": "<base64 encrypted>", "version": 2 },
    { "key": "prefs.legacy", "value": null, "version": 5 }
  ]
}
```

## Client-side types (shapes used before encryption)
These are the client-side structures that get encrypted and sent over the wire. They are defined in `packages/cli/src/api/types.ts`.

### Session message content (encrypted)
The payload stored in `SessionMessage.content` is always encrypted and wrapped as:
```json
{ "t": "encrypted", "c": "<base64 encrypted>" }
```

### Encrypted message payload (plaintext before encryption)
Messages are encrypted as `MessageContent` and then base64 encoded:

**User message**
```json
{
  "role": "user",
  "content": { "type": "text", "text": "..." },
  "localKey": "...",
  "meta": { }
}
```

**Agent message**
```json
{
  "role": "agent",
  "content": { "type": "output | codex | acp | event", "data": "..." },
  "meta": { }
}
```

### Metadata (encrypted)
```json
{
  "path": "...",
  "host": "...",
  "homeDir": "...",
  "happyHomeDir": "...",
  "happyLibDir": "...",
  "happyToolsDir": "...",
  "version": "...",
  "name": "...",
  "os": "...",
  "summary": { "text": "...", "updatedAt": 123 },
  "machineId": "...",
  "claudeSessionId": "...",
  "tools": ["..."],
  "slashCommands": ["..."],
  "startedFromDaemon": true,
  "hostPid": 12345,
  "startedBy": "daemon | terminal",
  "lifecycleState": "running | archiveRequested | archived",
  "lifecycleStateSince": 123,
  "archivedBy": "...",
  "archiveReason": "...",
  "flavor": "..."
}
```

### Agent state (encrypted)
```json
{
  "controlledByUser": true,
  "requests": {
    "<id>": { "tool": "...", "arguments": {}, "createdAt": 123 }
  },
  "completedRequests": {
    "<id>": {
      "tool": "...",
      "arguments": {},
      "createdAt": 123,
      "completedAt": 123,
      "status": "canceled | denied | approved",
      "reason": "...",
      "mode": "default | acceptEdits | bypassPermissions | plan | read-only | safe-yolo | yolo",
      "decision": "approved | approved_for_session | denied | abort",
      "allowTools": ["..."]
    }
  }
}
```

### Machine metadata (encrypted)
```json
{
  "host": "...",
  "platform": "...",
  "happyCliVersion": "...",
  "homeDir": "...",
  "happyHomeDir": "...",
  "happyLibDir": "..."
}
```

### Daemon state (encrypted)
```json
{
  "status": "running | shutting-down",
  "pid": 123,
  "httpPort": 123,
  "startedAt": 123,
  "shutdownRequestedAt": 123,
  "shutdownSource": "mobile-app | cli | os-signal | unknown"
}
```

## Decryption flow (client side)

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    Start([Receive encrypted field]) --> B64[Decode base64 to bytes]
    B64 --> Check{Has dataKey?}

    Check --> |No| Legacy[Use legacy variant]
    Check --> |Yes| DataKey[Use dataKey variant]

    subgraph "Legacy Path"
        Legacy --> ExtractL[Extract nonce + ciphertext]
        ExtractL --> DecryptL[secretbox.open with shared key]
    end

    subgraph "DataKey Path"
        DataKey --> GetDEK[Decrypt dataEncryptionKey bundle]
        GetDEK --> ExtractD[Extract version + nonce + ciphertext + tag]
        ExtractD --> DecryptD[AES-GCM decrypt with DEK]
    end

    DecryptL --> Plain([Plaintext JSON])
    DecryptD --> Plain
```

- Read base64 field from API/Socket.
- Decode base64 to bytes.
- Choose encryption variant (`legacy` or `dataKey`) based on local credentials.
- Decrypt bytes using the appropriate key and algorithm.

For `dataKey`, clients must first decrypt or derive the per-session/per-machine data key from the stored `dataEncryptionKey` bundle.

## Server-side encryption (service tokens)

```mermaid
graph LR
    subgraph "Third-Party Tokens"
        GH[GitHub OAuth]
        OAI[OpenAI]
        ANT[Anthropic]
        GEM[Gemini]
    end

    subgraph "Server"
        Secret[HANDY_MASTER_SECRET]
        KeyTree[KeyTree]
        Encrypt[Encrypt]
    end

    DB[(Postgres)]

    Secret --> KeyTree --> Encrypt
    GH & OAI & ANT & GEM --> Encrypt --> DB

    style GH fill:#fff3e0
    style OAI fill:#fff3e0
    style ANT fill:#fff3e0
    style GEM fill:#fff3e0
```

The server encrypts certain third-party tokens at rest:
- GitHub OAuth tokens (`GithubUser.token`).
- Vendor service tokens (`ServiceAccountToken.token`).

These are encrypted with a server-only KeyTree derived from `HANDY_MASTER_SECRET` and are not end-to-end encrypted.

## Encoding conventions

```mermaid
graph TB
    subgraph "Encoding Rules"
        E1["Encrypted bytes → base64 string"]
        E2["Timestamps → plain number (epoch ms)"]
        E3["IDs, tags, versions → plain string/number"]
    end

    subgraph "Examples"
        Ex1["metadata: 'SGVsbG8gV29ybGQ='"]
        Ex2["createdAt: 1704067200000"]
        Ex3["id: 'abc-123', version: 5"]
    end

    E1 --> Ex1
    E2 --> Ex2
    E3 --> Ex3
```

- All encrypted bytes are base64 strings on the wire unless explicitly noted.
- Timestamps remain plain numbers (epoch ms) and are not encrypted by the server.
- Non-encrypted identifiers (ids, tags, versions) are always plain strings/numbers.

## Implementation references
- Client crypto: `packages/cli/src/api/encryption.ts`
- Session message format: `packages/cli/src/api/types.ts`
- Server message ingestion: `packages/server/sources/app/api/socket/sessionUpdateHandler.ts`
- Artifact/KV routes: `packages/server/sources/app/api/routes/artifactsRoutes.ts`, `packages/server/sources/app/kv/kvMutate.ts`

Commit message:

refactor(workspace): rename packages/* → apps/*
Reorganize repository layout by moving the CLI package from packages/cli to apps/cli and updating related files. CI workflows, Dockerfiles, and various scripts/tests were updated to reflect the new paths; many files were renamed (R100) to the apps/cli location. This simplifies the workspace structure and ensures CI/CD and build tooling reference the updated directory layout.

docs/encryption.md, after:

# Encryption and Data Encoding

This document details how client data is encrypted, how encrypted blobs are structured, and how those blobs map onto protocol fields. It is based on `apps/cli/src/api/encryption.ts` and the server routes that accept/emit these values.

For transport and event shapes, see `protocol.md`. For HTTP endpoints, see `api.md`.

## Overview

```mermaid
graph TB
    subgraph "Client (CLI/Mobile)"
        Plain[Plaintext Data]
        ClientEnc[Client Encryption]
        B64[Base64 Encoded]
    end

    subgraph "Transport"
        Wire[HTTP / WebSocket]
    end

    subgraph "Server"
        Store[(Postgres)]
        ServerEnc[Server Encryption]
        Tokens[Service Tokens]
    end

    Plain --> ClientEnc --> B64 --> Wire --> Store
    Tokens --> ServerEnc --> Store

    style Plain fill:#e8f5e9
    style B64 fill:#fff3e0
    style Store fill:#e3f2fd
```

## Design goals
- Keep the server blind to user content (end-to-end encryption on clients).
- Use explicit, stable binary layouts so clients can interoperate across versions.
- Prefer simple, consistent base64 encoding on the wire.

## Encryption variants

```mermaid
graph LR
    subgraph "Variant Selection"
        Check{Has dataKey?}
        Check --> |No| Legacy[Legacy NaCl]
        Check --> |Yes| DataKey[DataKey AES-GCM]
    end

    subgraph "Legacy"
        L1[XSalsa20-Poly1305]
        L2[32-byte shared secret]
    end

    subgraph "DataKey"
        D1[AES-256-GCM]
        D2[Per-session/machine key]
    end

    Legacy --> L1 & L2
    DataKey --> D1 & D2
```

Clients currently use one of two encryption variants:

### 1) legacy (NaCl secretbox)
Used when the client only has a shared secret key.

**Algorithm**: `tweetnacl.secretbox` (XSalsa20-Poly1305)
- **Nonce length**: 24 bytes
- **Key length**: 32 bytes

**Binary layout** (plaintext JSON -> bytes):
```
[ nonce (24) | ciphertext+auth (secretbox output) ]
```

```mermaid
packet-beta
  0-23: "nonce (24 bytes)"
  24-55: "ciphertext + auth tag"
```

### 2) dataKey (AES-256-GCM)
Used when the client supports per-session/per-machine data keys.

**Algorithm**: AES-256-GCM
- **Nonce length**: 12 bytes
- **Auth tag**: 16 bytes
- **Key length**: 32 bytes

**Binary layout**:
```
[ version (1) | nonce (12) | ciphertext (...) | authTag (16) ]
```

```mermaid
packet-beta
  0-0: "ver"
  1-12: "nonce (12 bytes)"
  13-44: "ciphertext (...)"
  45-60: "authTag (16 bytes)"
```

- `version` is currently `0`.

## Data encryption key (dataKey variant)

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    subgraph "Key Wrapping"
        DEK[Data Encryption Key]
        Eph[Ephemeral Keypair]
        Box[tweetnacl.box]
        Bundle[Key Bundle]
    end

    DEK --> Box
    Eph --> Box
    Box --> Bundle

    subgraph "Content Encryption"
        Plain[Plaintext]
        AES[AES-256-GCM]
        Cipher[Ciphertext]
    end

    DEK --> AES
    Plain --> AES --> Cipher
```

When `dataKey` is used, the actual content key is encrypted for storage/transport.

**Algorithm**: `tweetnacl.box` with an ephemeral keypair.
- **Ephemeral public key**: 32 bytes
- **Nonce**: 24 bytes

**Binary layout**:
```
[ ephPublicKey (32) | nonce (24) | ciphertext (...) ]
```

```mermaid
packet-beta
  0-31: "ephPublicKey (32 bytes)"
  32-55: "nonce (24 bytes)"
  56-87: "ciphertext (...)"
```

This blob is then wrapped with a version byte before being sent/stored:
```
[ version (1 = 0) | boxBundle (...) ]
```

The resulting bytes are base64-encoded and placed in fields such as `dataEncryptionKey` for sessions/machines/artifacts.

## Where encryption is applied

```mermaid
graph TB
    subgraph "Client-Encrypted Fields"
        direction TB
        S1[Session metadata]
        S2[Session agent state]
        S3[Session messages]
        M1[Machine metadata]
        M2[Daemon state]
        A1[Artifact header]
        A2[Artifact body]
        K1[KV store values]
        AK[Access keys]
    end

    subgraph "Server Storage"
        DB[(Postgres)]
    end

    S1 & S2 & S3 --> |opaque strings| DB
    M1 & M2 --> |opaque strings| DB
    A1 & A2 --> |opaque bytes| DB
    K1 --> |opaque bytes| DB
    AK --> |opaque string| DB

    style S1 fill:#e1f5fe
    style S2 fill:#e1f5fe
    style S3 fill:#e1f5fe
    style M1 fill:#e1f5fe
    style M2 fill:#e1f5fe
    style A1 fill:#e1f5fe
    style A2 fill:#e1f5fe
    style K1 fill:#e1f5fe
    style AK fill:#e1f5fe
```

The server treats these fields as opaque strings/blobs. The client encrypts them before sending.

### Session metadata + agent state
- **Encrypted by client** and stored as strings in the DB.
- Used in:
  - `POST /v1/sessions` (create/load)
  - WebSocket `update-metadata` / `update-state`
  - `update-session` events

### Session messages

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Client
    participant Server
    participant DB as Postgres

    Client->>Client: Encrypt message
    Client->>Server: emit "message" { sid, message: "<base64>" }
    Server->>DB: Store { t: "encrypted", c: "<base64>" }

    Note over Server: Later, sync to other clients

    Server->>Client: update "new-message"<br/>content: { t: "encrypted", c: "<base64>" }
    Client->>Client: Decrypt message
```

- Client emits `message` with a base64 encrypted blob.
- Server stores it as `SessionMessage.content`:
  - `{ t: "encrypted", c: "<base64>" }`
- Server emits it back in `new-message` updates with the same structure.

### Machine metadata + daemon state
- **Encrypted by client** and stored as strings in the DB.
- Used in:
  - `POST /v1/machines`
  - WebSocket `machine-update-metadata` / `machine-update-state`
  - `update-machine` events

### Artifacts
- `header` and `body` are encrypted bytes encoded as base64 on the wire.
- Stored as `Bytes` in the DB.
- Emitted in `new-artifact` / `update-artifact` events as base64 strings.

### Access keys
- `AccessKey.data` is treated as an **opaque encrypted string**.
- The server does not decode it or inspect its contents.

### Key-value store
- `UserKVStore.value` is encrypted bytes encoded as base64 on the wire.
- `kvMutate` expects base64 strings; `kvGet/list/bulk` return base64 strings.

## On-wire formats (encrypted fields)

```mermaid
graph LR
    subgraph "Wire Format"
        JSON[JSON payload]
        B64["base64 strings<br/>(encrypted bytes)"]
        Plain["plain values<br/>(ids, versions, timestamps)"]
    end

    JSON --> B64
    JSON --> Plain
```

Below are the typical JSON shapes that carry encrypted data. All `...` values are base64 strings representing encrypted bytes.

### Session creation
```http
POST /v1/sessions
```
```json
{
  "tag": "<string>",
  "metadata": "<base64 encrypted>",
  "agentState": "<base64 encrypted or null>",
  "dataEncryptionKey": "<base64 data key bundle or null>"
}
```

### Encrypted message (client -> server)
```
Socket emit: "message"
```
```json
{
  "sid": "<session id>",
  "message": "<base64 encrypted>"
}
```

### Encrypted message (server -> client)
```
update.body.t = "new-message"
```
```json
{
  "t": "encrypted",
  "c": "<base64 encrypted>"
}
```

### Session metadata update (WebSocket)
```
Socket emit: "update-metadata"
```
```json
{
  "sid": "<session id>",
  "metadata": "<base64 encrypted>",
  "expectedVersion": 3
}
```

### Machine update (WebSocket)
```
Socket emit: "machine-update-state"
```
```json
{
  "machineId": "<machine id>",
  "daemonState": "<base64 encrypted>",
  "expectedVersion": 2
}
```

### Artifact create/update (HTTP)
```http
POST /v1/artifacts
```
```json
{
  "id": "<uuid>",
  "header": "<base64 encrypted>",
  "body": "<base64 encrypted>",
  "dataEncryptionKey": "<base64 data key bundle>"
}
```

### KV mutate (HTTP)
```http
POST /v1/kv
```
```json
{
  "mutations": [
    { "key": "prefs.theme", "value": "<base64 encrypted>", "version": 2 },
    { "key": "prefs.legacy", "value": null, "version": 5 }
  ]
}
```

## Client-side types (shapes used before encryption)
These are the client-side structures that get encrypted and sent over the wire. They are defined in `apps/cli/src/api/types.ts`.

### Session message content (encrypted)
The payload stored in `SessionMessage.content` is always encrypted and wrapped as:
```json
{ "t": "encrypted", "c": "<base64 encrypted>" }
```

### Encrypted message payload (plaintext before encryption)
Messages are encrypted as `MessageContent` and then base64 encoded:

**User message**
```json
{
  "role": "user",
  "content": { "type": "text", "text": "..." },
  "localKey": "...",
  "meta": { }
}
```

**Agent message**
```json
{
  "role": "agent",
  "content": { "type": "output | codex | acp | event", "data": "..." },
  "meta": { }
}
```

### Metadata (encrypted)
```json
{
  "path": "...",
  "host": "...",
  "homeDir": "...",
  "happyHomeDir": "...",
  "happyLibDir": "...",
  "happyToolsDir": "...",
  "version": "...",
  "name": "...",
  "os": "...",
  "summary": { "text": "...", "updatedAt": 123 },
  "machineId": "...",
  "claudeSessionId": "...",
  "tools": ["..."],
  "slashCommands": ["..."],
  "startedFromDaemon": true,
  "hostPid": 12345,
  "startedBy": "daemon | terminal",
  "lifecycleState": "running | archiveRequested | archived",
  "lifecycleStateSince": 123,
  "archivedBy": "...",
  "archiveReason": "...",
  "flavor": "..."
}
```

### Agent state (encrypted)
```json
{
  "controlledByUser": true,
  "requests": {
    "<id>": { "tool": "...", "arguments": {}, "createdAt": 123 }
  },
  "completedRequests": {
    "<id>": {
      "tool": "...",
      "arguments": {},
      "createdAt": 123,
      "completedAt": 123,
      "status": "canceled | denied | approved",
      "reason": "...",
      "mode": "default | acceptEdits | bypassPermissions | plan | read-only | safe-yolo | yolo",
      "decision": "approved | approved_for_session | denied | abort",
      "allowTools": ["..."]
    }
  }
}
```

### Machine metadata (encrypted)
```json
{
  "host": "...",
  "platform": "...",
  "happyCliVersion": "...",
  "homeDir": "...",
  "happyHomeDir": "...",
  "happyLibDir": "..."
}
```

### Daemon state (encrypted)
```json
{
  "status": "running | shutting-down",
  "pid": 123,
  "httpPort": 123,
  "startedAt": 123,
  "shutdownRequestedAt": 123,
  "shutdownSource": "mobile-app | cli | os-signal | unknown"
}
```

## Decryption flow (client side)

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    Start([Receive encrypted field]) --> B64[Decode base64 to bytes]
    B64 --> Check{Has dataKey?}

    Check --> |No| Legacy[Use legacy variant]
    Check --> |Yes| DataKey[Use dataKey variant]

    subgraph "Legacy Path"
        Legacy --> ExtractL[Extract nonce + ciphertext]
        ExtractL --> DecryptL[secretbox.open with shared key]
    end

    subgraph "DataKey Path"
        DataKey --> GetDEK[Decrypt dataEncryptionKey bundle]
        GetDEK --> ExtractD[Extract version + nonce + ciphertext + tag]
        ExtractD --> DecryptD[AES-GCM decrypt with DEK]
    end

    DecryptL --> Plain([Plaintext JSON])
    DecryptD --> Plain
```

- Read base64 field from API/Socket.
- Decode base64 to bytes.
- Choose encryption variant (`legacy` or `dataKey`) based on local credentials.
- Decrypt bytes using the appropriate key and algorithm.

For `dataKey`, clients must first decrypt or derive the per-session/per-machine data key from the stored `dataEncryptionKey` bundle.

## Server-side encryption (service tokens)

```mermaid
graph LR
    subgraph "Third-Party Tokens"
        GH[GitHub OAuth]
        OAI[OpenAI]
        ANT[Anthropic]
        GEM[Gemini]
    end

    subgraph "Server"
        Secret[HANDY_MASTER_SECRET]
        KeyTree[KeyTree]
        Encrypt[Encrypt]
    end

    DB[(Postgres)]

    Secret --> KeyTree --> Encrypt
    GH & OAI & ANT & GEM --> Encrypt --> DB

    style GH fill:#fff3e0
    style OAI fill:#fff3e0
    style ANT fill:#fff3e0
    style GEM fill:#fff3e0
```

The server encrypts certain third-party tokens at rest:
- GitHub OAuth tokens (`GithubUser.token`).
- Vendor service tokens (`ServiceAccountToken.token`).

These are encrypted with a server-only KeyTree derived from `HANDY_MASTER_SECRET` and are not end-to-end encrypted.

## Encoding conventions

```mermaid
graph TB
    subgraph "Encoding Rules"
        E1["Encrypted bytes → base64 string"]
        E2["Timestamps → plain number (epoch ms)"]
        E3["IDs, tags, versions → plain string/number"]
    end

    subgraph "Examples"
        Ex1["metadata: 'SGVsbG8gV29ybGQ='"]
        Ex2["createdAt: 1704067200000"]
        Ex3["id: 'abc-123', version: 5"]
    end

    E1 --> Ex1
    E2 --> Ex2
    E3 --> Ex3
```

- All encrypted bytes are base64 strings on the wire unless explicitly noted.
- Timestamps remain plain numbers (epoch ms) and are not encrypted by the server.
- Non-encrypted identifiers (ids, tags, versions) are always plain strings/numbers.

## Implementation references
- Client crypto: `apps/cli/src/api/encryption.ts`
- Session message format: `apps/cli/src/api/types.ts`
- Server message ingestion: `apps/server/sources/app/api/socket/sessionUpdateHandler.ts`
- Artifact/KV routes: `apps/server/sources/app/api/routes/artifactsRoutes.ts`, `apps/server/sources/app/kv/kvMutate.ts`
